docs/auth/permissions/model-permissions.mdx, before:

---
description: "Guide on setting up model permissions in your supergraph"
keywords:
  - model permissions
  - supergraph
  - data access control
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Model Permissions
---

# Model Permissions

To limit what **data** in a model is available to a role in your supergraph, you define a `ModelPermissions` object with
a `filter` expression.

By default, whenever a new model is created in your supergraph, all records are only accessible to the `admin` role. You
can think of these as permissions on rows in a typical relational database table.

You can restrict access to certain data by adding a new item to the `permissions` array in the `ModelPermissions`
object. Each item in the array should have a `role` field and a `select` field. The `select` field should contain a
`filter` expression that determines which rows are accessible to the role when selecting from the model.

Most commonly, you'll use session variables — accessed by Hasura Engine via your configured
[authentication mechanism](/auth/overview.mdx) in a JWT or body of a webhook response — to restrict access to rows based
on the user's role, identity or other criteria.

This filter expression can reference

- The fields in your Model
- Logical operators: `and`, `or` and `not`
- `fieldIsNull` predicate
- `fieldComparison` predicate
- Relationship predicates
- `null`

To make a new `ModelPermission` or role available in your supergraph, after updating your metadata, you'll need to
[create a new build](/reference/cli/commands/ddn_supergraph_build_local.mdx) using the CLI.

### Examples

```yaml title="Allow admin to access all rows in the Articles model but allow user to access rows where the author_id field matches the user id session variable. Basically, their own articles."
---
kind: ModelPermissions
version: v1
definition:
  modelName: Articles
  # highlight-start
  permissions:
    - role: admin
      select:
        filter: null
    - role: user
      select:
        filter:
          fieldComparison:
            field: author_id
            operator: _eq
            value:
              sessionVariable: x-hasura-user-id
  # highlight-end
```

## Reference

See the [ModelPermissions](/reference/metadata-reference/permissions.mdx) reference for more information.

Commit message:

Add a note clarifying remote relationships across subgraphs are not supported in permission filters (#973)

docs/auth/permissions/model-permissions.mdx, after:

---
description: "Guide on setting up model permissions in your supergraph"
keywords:
  - model permissions
  - supergraph
  - data access control
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Model Permissions
---

# Model Permissions

To limit what **data** in a model is available to a role in your supergraph, you define a `ModelPermissions` object with
a `filter` expression.

By default, whenever a new model is created in your supergraph, all records are only accessible to the `admin` role. You
can think of these as permissions on rows in a typical relational database table.

You can restrict access to certain data by adding a new item to the `permissions` array in the `ModelPermissions`
object. Each item in the array should have a `role` field and a `select` field. The `select` field should contain a
`filter` expression that determines which rows are accessible to the role when selecting from the model.

Most commonly, you'll use session variables — accessed by Hasura Engine via your configured
[authentication mechanism](/auth/overview.mdx) in a JWT or body of a webhook response — to restrict access to rows based
on the user's role, identity or other criteria.

This filter expression can reference

- The fields in your Model
- Logical operators: `and`, `or` and `not`
- `fieldIsNull` predicate
- `fieldComparison` predicate
- Relationship predicates
- `null`

:::info Remote Relationships in Permissions
Remote relationships (relationships between different data connectors) across subgraphs are not supported in permission filters.
:::

To make a new `ModelPermission` or role available in your supergraph, after updating your metadata, you'll need to
[create a new build](/reference/cli/commands/ddn_supergraph_build_local.mdx) using the CLI.

### Examples

```yaml title="Allow admin to access all rows in the Articles model but allow user to access rows where the author_id field matches the user id session variable. Basically, their own articles."
---
kind: ModelPermissions
version: v1
definition:
  modelName: Articles
  # highlight-start
  permissions:
    - role: admin
      select:
        filter: null
    - role: user
      select:
        filter:
          fieldComparison:
            field: author_id
            operator: _eq
            value:
              sessionVariable: x-hasura-user-id
  # highlight-end
```

## Reference

See the [ModelPermissions](/reference/metadata-reference/permissions.mdx) reference for more information.
