docs/recipes/project-config/remove-subgraph.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: Remove a subgraph
description: "Learn how to remove a subgraph from your local project directory"
keywords:
  - hasura
  - hasura ddn
  - recipe
  - guide
  - project configuration
  - remove
  - subgraph
seoFrontMatterUpdated: false
---

# Remove a subgraph

## Introduction

In this recipe, you'll learn how to remove a subgraph from your local project directory.

:::info Prerequisites

Before continuing, ensure you have:

- A [local Hasura DDN project](/quickstart.mdx).
- Stopped any running docker services related to the project.

:::

## Recipe

### Step 1. Delete subgraph directory

Delete the directory containing the subgraph related config files, connectors and metadata of the subgraph. The subgraph
directory is typically located at `<subgraph-name>`.

### Step 2. Update supergraph config files

Remove the path to the subgraph config files in all
[supergraph config files](/project-configuration/config.mdx#supergraph-config). The supergraph config file is typically
located at the project root, i.e., `<project-root>/supergraph.yaml`.

```yaml title="supergraph.yaml"
kind: Supergraph
version: v2
definition:
  subgraphs:
    - globals/subgraph.yaml
    #highlight-start
    - <subgraph-name>/subgraph.yaml
    #highlight-end
    ...
```

### Step 3. Update engine compose file

Remove references to any compose files of connectors in the deleted subgraph from the engine compose file. The engine
compose file is typically located at `<project-root>/compose.yaml`.

```yaml title="<project-root>/compose.yaml"
include:
  #highlight-start
  - path: <subgraph-name>/connector/<connector-1>/compose.yaml
  - path: <subgraph-name>/connector/<connector-2>/compose.yaml
  #highlight-end
  ...
services:
  engine: ...
```

### Step 4. Remove subgraph config file from context

The [context config file](/project-configuration/config.mdx#context-file) located at `.hasura/context.yaml` may have the
subgraph config file path saved in the context. Remove the `subgraph` key if set as the deleted subgraph config file.

```yaml title=".hasura/context.yaml"
kind: Context
version: v3
definition:
  current: default
  contexts:
    default:
      supergraph: ../supergraph.yaml
      #highlight-start
      subgraph: ../<subgraph-name>/subgraph.yaml
      #highlight-end
      ...
```

### Step 5. (Optional) Remove subgraph relevant environment variables

You can remove the environment variables that were defined for your subgraph from the env files that you might have. The
CLI-generated environment variables for a subgraph typically start with the `<SUBGRAPH_NAME>_` prefix.

```.env title="For example, .env"
...
#highlight-start
<SUBGRAPH_NAME>_<CONNECTOR>_READ_URL="<connector-read-url>"
<SUBGRAPH_NAME>_<CONNECTOR>_WRITE_URL="<connector-write-url>"
<SUBGRAPH_NAME>_<CONNECTOR>_AUTHORIZATION_HEADER="Bearer <roken>"
#highlight-end
...
```

## Learn more

- [Project configuration](/project-configuration/overview.mdx)

Commit message:

Docs: Update projects section (#842)
Co-authored-by: Marion Schleifer <marion@hasura.io>

docs/recipes/project-config/remove-subgraph.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: Remove a subgraph
description: "Learn how to remove a subgraph from your local project directory"
keywords:
  - hasura
  - hasura ddn
  - recipe
  - guide
  - project configuration
  - remove
  - subgraph
seoFrontMatterUpdated: false
---

# Remove a subgraph

## Introduction

In this recipe, you'll learn how to remove a subgraph from your local project directory.

:::info Prerequisites

Before continuing, ensure you have:

- A [local Hasura DDN project](/quickstart.mdx).
- Stopped any running docker services related to the project.

:::

## Recipe

### Step 1. Delete subgraph directory

Delete the directory containing the subgraph related config files, connectors and metadata of the subgraph. The subgraph
directory is typically located at `<subgraph-name>`.

### Step 2. Update supergraph config files

Remove the path to the subgraph config files in all [supergraph config files](/project/configuration/overview.mdxlocated
at the project root, i.e., `<project-root>/supergraph.yaml`.

```yaml title="supergraph.yaml"
kind: Supergraph
version: v2
definition:
  subgraphs:
    - globals/subgraph.yaml
    #highlight-start
    - <subgraph-name>/subgraph.yaml
    #highlight-end
    ...
```

### Step 3. Update engine compose file

Remove references to any compose files of connectors in the deleted subgraph from the engine compose file. The engine
compose file is typically located at `<project-root>/compose.yaml`.

```yaml title="<project-root>/compose.yaml"
include:
  #highlight-start
  - path: <subgraph-name>/connector/<connector-1>/compose.yaml
  - path: <subgraph-name>/connector/<connector-2>/compose.yaml
  #highlight-end
  ...
services:
  engine: ...
```

### Step 4. Remove subgraph config file from context

The [context config file](/project/configuration/overview.mdxsubgraph config file path saved in the context. Remove the
`subgraph` key if set as the deleted subgraph config file.

```yaml title=".hasura/context.yaml"
kind: Context
version: v3
definition:
  current: default
  contexts:
    default:
      supergraph: ../supergraph.yaml
      #highlight-start
      subgraph: ../<subgraph-name>/subgraph.yaml
      #highlight-end
      ...
```

### Step 5. (Optional) Remove subgraph relevant environment variables

You can remove the environment variables that were defined for your subgraph from the env files that you might have. The
CLI-generated environment variables for a subgraph typically start with the `<SUBGRAPH_NAME>_` prefix.

```.env title="For example, .env"
...
#highlight-start
<SUBGRAPH_NAME>_<CONNECTOR>_READ_URL="<connector-read-url>"
<SUBGRAPH_NAME>_<CONNECTOR>_WRITE_URL="<connector-write-url>"
<SUBGRAPH_NAME>_<CONNECTOR>_AUTHORIZATION_HEADER="Bearer <roken>"
#highlight-end
...
```

## Learn more

- [Project configuration](/project/configuration/overview.mdx
