docs/recipes/project-config/rename-subgraph.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Rename a subgraph
description: "Learn how to rename a subgraph in your local project directory"
keywords:
  - hasura
  - hasura ddn
  - recipe
  - guide
  - project configuration
  - rename
  - subgraph
seoFrontMatterUpdated: false
---

# Rename a subgraph

## Introduction

In this recipe, you'll learn how to rename a subgraph in your local project directory.

:::info Prerequisites

Before continuing, ensure you have:

- A [local Hasura DDN project](/quickstart.mdx).
- Stopped any running docker services related to the project.

:::

## Recipe

### Step 1. Update subgraph config files

Update the name of the subgraph in all the [subgraph config files](/project-configuration/config/#subgraph-config) of
the subgraph. The subgraph config is typically located at `<subgraph-name>/subgraph.yaml`.

```yaml title="<subgraph-name>/subgraph.yaml"
kind: Subgraph
version: v2
definition:
  #highlight-start
  name: <new-subgraph-name>
  #highlight-end
  generator:
    rootPath: .
  includePaths:
    - metadata
  envMapping: ...
```

### Step 2. Update connector config files of the subgraph

Update the reference of the subgraph in all the
[connector config files](/project-configuration/config.mdx#connector-config) of all the connectors belonging to the
subgraph. The connector config is typically located at `<subgraph-name>/connector/<connector-name>/connector.yaml`.

```yaml title="<subgraph-name>/connector/<connector-name>/connector.yaml"
kind: Connector
version: v2
definition:
  name: <connector-name>
  #highlight-start
  subgraph: <new-subgraph-name>
  #highlight-end
  source: hasura/<connector-type>
  context: .
  envMapping: ...
```

### Step 3. Update compose files of connectors of the subgraph

Update the name of the connector service in the [compose file](/project-configuration/config.mdx#compose-files) of all
the connectors belonging to the subgraph. The connector compose file is typically located at
`<project-root>/<subgraph-name>/connector/<connector-name>/compose.yaml`.

```yaml title="<subgraph-name>/connector/<connector-name>/compose.yaml"
services:
  #highlight-start
  <new-subgraph-name>_<connector-name>:
    #highlight-end
    build:
      context: .
      dockerfile_inline: ...
```

### Step 4. (Optional) Update subgraph directory name

The subgraph directory is typically named as the subgraph name itself. The directory name does not impact any
functionality, but you might want to rename it to maintain consistency. The subgraph directory is typically located at
the project root, i.e., `<project-root>/<subgraph-name>/`.

Rename the directory to `<project-root>/<new-subgraph-name>/`.

Renaming the subgraph directory name will require updates to any references to files within the directory. These should
typically be in:

#### Step 4.1. Supergraph config files

Update the path to the subgraph config files in all
[supergraph config files](/project-configuration/config.mdx#supergraph-config). The supergraph config file is typically
located at the project root, i.e., `<project-root>/supergraph.yaml`.

```yaml title="supergraph.yaml"
kind: Supergraph
version: v2
definition:
  subgraphs:
    - globals/subgraph.yaml
    #highlight-start
    - <new-subgraph-name>/subgraph.yaml
    #highlight-end
    ...
```

#### Step 4.2. Engine compose file

Update the path to the connector compose files included in the engine
[compose file](/project-configuration/config.mdx#compose-files). The engine config file is typically located at the
project root, i.e., `<project-root>/compose.yaml`.

```yaml title="compose.yaml"
include:
  #highlight-start
  - path: <new-subgraph-name>/connector/<connector-1>/compose.yaml
  - path: <new-subgraph-name>/connector/<connector-2>/compose.yaml
  #highlight-end
  ...
services:
  engine:
    build:
    ...
```

#### Step 4.3. Context config

The [context config file](/project-configuration/config.mdx#context-file) located at `.hasura/context.yaml` may have the
subgraph config file path saved in the context. Update the subgraph config path if set.

```yaml title=".hasura/context.yaml"
kind: Context
version: v3
definition:
  current: default
  contexts:
    default:
      supergraph: ../supergraph.yaml
      #highlight-start
      subgraph: ../<new-subgraph-name>/subgraph.yaml
      #highlight-end
      ...
```

## Learn more

- [Project configuration](/project-configuration/overview.mdx)

Commit message:

Docs: Stub out new directory structure
Stubs out new directory structure and modifies refs across docs to point to
the overview page for the section.

docs/recipes/project-config/rename-subgraph.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Rename a subgraph
description: "Learn how to rename a subgraph in your local project directory"
keywords:
  - hasura
  - hasura ddn
  - recipe
  - guide
  - project configuration
  - rename
  - subgraph
seoFrontMatterUpdated: false
---

# Rename a subgraph

## Introduction

In this recipe, you'll learn how to rename a subgraph in your local project directory.

:::info Prerequisites

Before continuing, ensure you have:

- A [local Hasura DDN project](/quickstart.mdx).
- Stopped any running docker services related to the project.

:::

## Recipe

### Step 1. Update subgraph config files

Update the name of the subgraph in all the [subgraph config files](/project/configuration/overview.mdxthe subgraph. The
subgraph config is typically located at `<subgraph-name>/subgraph.yaml`.

```yaml title="<subgraph-name>/subgraph.yaml"
kind: Subgraph
version: v2
definition:
  #highlight-start
  name: <new-subgraph-name>
  #highlight-end
  generator:
    rootPath: .
  includePaths:
    - metadata
  envMapping: ...
```

### Step 2. Update connector config files of the subgraph

Update the reference of the subgraph in all the [connector config files](/project/configuration/overview.mdxsubgraph.
The connector config is typically located at `<subgraph-name>/connector/<connector-name>/connector.yaml`.

```yaml title="<subgraph-name>/connector/<connector-name>/connector.yaml"
kind: Connector
version: v2
definition:
  name: <connector-name>
  #highlight-start
  subgraph: <new-subgraph-name>
  #highlight-end
  source: hasura/<connector-type>
  context: .
  envMapping: ...
```

### Step 3. Update compose files of connectors of the subgraph

Update the name of the connector service in the [compose file](/project/configuration/overview.mdxthe connectors
belonging to the subgraph. The connector compose file is typically located at
`<project-root>/<subgraph-name>/connector/<connector-name>/compose.yaml`.

```yaml title="<subgraph-name>/connector/<connector-name>/compose.yaml"
services:
  #highlight-start
  <new-subgraph-name>_<connector-name>:
    #highlight-end
    build:
      context: .
      dockerfile_inline: ...
```

### Step 4. (Optional) Update subgraph directory name

The subgraph directory is typically named as the subgraph name itself. The directory name does not impact any
functionality, but you might want to rename it to maintain consistency. The subgraph directory is typically located at
the project root, i.e., `<project-root>/<subgraph-name>/`.

Rename the directory to `<project-root>/<new-subgraph-name>/`.

Renaming the subgraph directory name will require updates to any references to files within the directory. These should
typically be in:

#### Step 4.1. Supergraph config files

Update the path to the subgraph config files in all [supergraph config files](/project/configuration/overview.mdxlocated
at the project root, i.e., `<project-root>/supergraph.yaml`.

```yaml title="supergraph.yaml"
kind: Supergraph
version: v2
definition:
  subgraphs:
    - globals/subgraph.yaml
    #highlight-start
    - <new-subgraph-name>/subgraph.yaml
    #highlight-end
    ...
```

#### Step 4.2. Engine compose file

Update the path to the connector compose files included in the engine [compose
file](/project/configuration/overview.mdxproject root, i.e., `<project-root>/compose.yaml`.

```yaml title="compose.yaml"
include:
  #highlight-start
  - path: <new-subgraph-name>/connector/<connector-1>/compose.yaml
  - path: <new-subgraph-name>/connector/<connector-2>/compose.yaml
  #highlight-end
  ...
services:
  engine:
    build:
    ...
```

#### Step 4.3. Context config

The [context config file](/project/configuration/overview.mdxsubgraph config file path saved in the context. Update the
subgraph config path if set.

```yaml title=".hasura/context.yaml"
kind: Context
version: v3
definition:
  current: default
  contexts:
    default:
      supergraph: ../supergraph.yaml
      #highlight-start
      subgraph: ../<new-subgraph-name>/subgraph.yaml
      #highlight-end
      ...
```

## Learn more

- [Project configuration](/project/configuration/overview.mdx
