docs/reference/connectors/postgresql/dynamic-connections-tutorial.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_label: Dynamic Connections Tutorial
description: "A tutorial for implementing dynamic connections with PostgreSQL connector"
keywords:
  - postgresql
  - dynamic connections
  - read replicas
  - load balancing
  - webhook
---

# Dynamic Connections Tutorial

## Introduction

This tutorial demonstrates how to use dynamic connections with the PostgreSQL connector to implement read/write
splitting and load balancing. We'll configure a primary database for writes and multiple read replicas for queries, with
automatic routing based on operation type.

## Overview

The dynamic connection routing system uses a pre-NDC webhook to intercept requests before they reach the PostgreSQL
connector, allowing us to route operations to different databases based on the operation type.

```mermaid
---
title: Dynamic Connection Routing Flow
---
graph TD
    Client[Client] -->|1. GraphQL Request| Engine[Hasura Engine]
    Engine -->|2. Ndc Request + Session| Webhook["Pre-NDC Hook<br />• Receive NDC request + session<br/>• Check operation type<br/>• Add connection_name request argument<br/>• Return modified request"]
    Webhook -->|3. Modified NDC Request| Engine
    Engine -->|4. Modified NDC Request| Connector["PostgreSQL Connector<br \>Use connection_name request argument to choose database credentials"]
    Connector -->|5. Query| Database[(Selected Database)]
    Database -->|6. Results| Connector
    Connector -->|7. NDC Response| Engine
    Engine -->|8. GraphQL Response| Client

    style Webhook fill:#fff2cc,stroke:#d6b656
    style Database fill:#e1d5e7,stroke:#9673a6
    style Connector fill:#ccffcc
```

### Request Flow

1. **Client sends GraphQL request** to Hasura Engine
2. **Engine triggers pre-NDC hook**, sending request details to the webhook
3. **Webhook analyzes operation type** and adds appropriate `connection_name` to the request
4. **Engine forwards modified request** to PostgreSQL connector with `connection_name` parameter
5. **Connector routes to selected database** based on the `connection_name`
6. **Database processes query** and returns results
7. **Results flow back** through connector → engine → client

## Prerequisites

This tutorial demonstrates how to use dynamic connections with the PostgreSQL connector to implement read/write
splitting and load balancing. Before we begin configuring dynamic routing, you'll need to complete these setup steps:

### 1. Create a Hasura DDN project

If you haven't already, create a new Hasura DDN project with a PostgreSQL connector:

```bash
ddn supergraph init myproject
cd myproject
ddn connector init -i  # select hasura/postgres, use defaults for all options
```

### 2. Set up multiple databases

For this tutorial, we'll simulate a primary-replica setup using a single PostgreSQL instance with multiple databases. In
production, these would be separate database servers.

#### Create the database initialization script

Create `app/connector/mypostgres/init-scripts/init-db.sql`:

```sql
-- Create the primary database and tables
\c primary;

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS "table" (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  name TEXT NOT NULL
);

INSERT INTO "table" (name) VALUES
  ('Primary Record 1'),
  ('Primary Record 2'),
  ('Primary Record 3');

-- Create follower databases
CREATE DATABASE follower1;
CREATE DATABASE follower2;
CREATE DATABASE follower3;

-- Connect to follower1 and create the same schema
\c follower1;

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS "table" (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  name TEXT NOT NULL
);

INSERT INTO "table" (name) VALUES
  ('Follower1 Record 1'),
  ('Follower1 Record 2'),
  ('Follower1 Record 3');

-- Connect to follower2 and create the same schema
\c follower2;

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS "table" (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  name TEXT NOT NULL
);

INSERT INTO "table" (name) VALUES
  ('Follower2 Record 1'),
  ('Follower2 Record 2'),
  ('Follower2 Record 3');

-- Connect to follower3 and create the same schema
\c follower3;

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS "table" (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  name TEXT NOT NULL
);

INSERT INTO "table" (name) VALUES
  ('Follower3 Record 1'),
  ('Follower3 Record 2'),
  ('Follower3 Record 3');
```

#### Update the PostgreSQL compose configuration

Update `app/connector/mypostgres/compose.postgres-adminer.yaml` to include the initialization script:

```yaml
services:
  postgres:
    environment:
      POSTGRES_DB: primary # change name of default db to primary
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: password
      POSTGRES_USER: user
    image: pgvector/pgvector:pg17
    ports:
      - 8241:5432
    restart: unless-stopped
    volumes:
      - db_data:/var/lib/postgresql/data
      - ./init-scripts:/docker-entrypoint-initdb.d # map the init script

volumes:
  db_data:
```

#### Restart the database to apply initialization

If you already have the database running, you'll need to restart it to run the initialization script:

```bash
docker compose -f app/connector/mypostgres/compose.postgres-adminer.yaml down -v
docker compose -f app/connector/mypostgres/compose.postgres-adminer.yaml up -d
```

The `-v` flag removes the volumes, ensuring the database starts fresh and runs the initialization script.

### 3. Create the webhook runtime environment

Set up a webhook server that will handle the dynamic routing logic. In this tutorial, we'll create a simple
Node.js/Express server, but in production you would typically use your preferred hosting platform (AWS Lambda, Vercel,
Railway, etc.).

#### Set up the webhook project structure

Create the webhook directory and files:

```bash
mkdir -p webhook/src
```

#### Create package.json

Create `webhook/package.json`:

```json
{
  "name": "hasura-webhook-server",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "Pre-NDC request webhook server for Hasura",
  "main": "dist/server.js",
  "scripts": {
    "build": "tsc",
    "start": "node dist/server.js",
    "dev": "ts-node src/server.ts"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "express": "^4.18.2"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "@types/express": "^4.17.17",
    "@types/node": "^18.15.11",
    "ts-node": "^10.9.1",
    "typescript": "^5.0.4"
  }
}
```

#### Create TypeScript configuration

Create `webhook/tsconfig.json`:

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "target": "ES2020",
    "module": "commonjs",
    "outDir": "./dist",
    "rootDir": "./src",
    "strict": true,
    "esModuleInterop": true,
    "skipLibCheck": true,
    "forceConsistentCasingInFileNames": true,
    "resolveJsonModule": true
  },
  "include": ["src/**/*"],
  "exclude": ["node_modules", "dist"]
}
```

#### Create the basic server

Create `webhook/src/server.ts`:

```typescript
import express, { Request, Response } from "express";

const app = express();
const PORT = process.env.PORT ? parseInt(process.env.PORT, 10) : 3033;
const HOST = process.env.HOST || "0.0.0.0";

// Middleware for parsing JSON
app.use(express.json());

// Health check endpoint
app.get("/ping", (req: Request, res: Response) => {
  res.json({ status: "ok" });
});

// 404 handler
app.use((req: Request, res: Response) => {
  console.log("404 Not Found for:", req.url);
  res.status(404).json({ error: "Not found" });
});

// Start the server
app.listen(PORT, HOST, () => {
  console.log(`Webhook server running at http://${HOST}:${PORT}`);
});
```

#### Create the Dockerfile

Create `webhook/Dockerfile`:

```dockerfile
FROM node:18-alpine

WORKDIR /app

# Copy package.json and package-lock.json
COPY package*.json ./
RUN npm install

# Copy TypeScript configuration and source code
COPY tsconfig.json ./
COPY src ./src

# Build TypeScript code
RUN npm run build

EXPOSE 3033

CMD ["npm", "start"]
```

## Step 1: Update connector configuration for dynamic connections

First, we need to configure the PostgreSQL connector to support multiple database connections and update the environment
variables.

### Update connector configuration

Update `app/connector/mypostgres/configuration.json` to include dynamic connection settings:

```json
{
  "version": "5",
  "$schema": "schema.json",
  "connectionSettings": {
    "connectionUri": {
      "variable": "CONNECTION_URI"
    },
    "poolSettings": {
      "maxConnections": 50,
      "poolTimeout": 30,
      "idleTimeout": 180,
      "checkConnectionAfterIdle": 60,
      "connectionLifetime": 600
    },
    "isolationLevel": "ReadCommitted",
    "dynamicSettings": {
      "mode": "named",
      "connectionUris": {
        "map": {
          "primary": {
            "variable": "CONNECTION_URI"
          },
          "follower1": {
            "variable": "CONNECTION_URI_FOLLOWER1"
          },
          "follower2": {
            "variable": "CONNECTION_URI_FOLLOWER2"
          },
          "follower3": {
            "variable": "CONNECTION_URI_FOLLOWER3"
          }
        }
      },
      "fallbackToStatic": false,
      "eagerConnections": true
    }
  },
  "metadata": {
    // ... your existing metadata configuration
  }
}
```

### Add environment variables

Update your `.env` file to include the new connection strings:

```bash
# Primary database (for writes)
APP_MYPOSTGRES_CONNECTION_URI=postgresql://user:password@localhost:8241/primary

# Read replica connections
APP_MYPOSTGRES_CONNECTION_URI_FOLLOWER1=postgresql://user:password@localhost:8241/follower1
APP_MYPOSTGRES_CONNECTION_URI_FOLLOWER2=postgresql://user:password@localhost:8241/follower2
APP_MYPOSTGRES_CONNECTION_URI_FOLLOWER3=postgresql://user:password@localhost:8241/follower3
```

### Update connector environment mapping

Update `app/connector/mypostgres/connector.yaml` to include the new environment variables:

```yaml
kind: Connector
version: v2
definition:
  name: mypostgres
  subgraph: app
  source: hasura/postgres:v3.0.0
  context: .
  envMapping:
    CONNECTION_URI:
      fromEnv: APP_MYPOSTGRES_CONNECTION_URI
    CONNECTION_URI_FOLLOWER1:
      fromEnv: APP_MYPOSTGRES_CONNECTION_URI_FOLLOWER1
    CONNECTION_URI_FOLLOWER2:
      fromEnv: APP_MYPOSTGRES_CONNECTION_URI_FOLLOWER2
    CONNECTION_URI_FOLLOWER3:
      fromEnv: APP_MYPOSTGRES_CONNECTION_URI_FOLLOWER3
    # ... your existing environment mappings
```

Our connector should now expect a `connection_name` request level argument with every request, and route accordingly.

## Step 2: Implement the routing webhook

Now we'll add the actual routing logic to our webhook server and include it in the Docker Compose setup.

### Add type definitions

First, add the TypeScript interfaces for the webhook request. Add these to the top of `webhook/src/server.ts`:

```typescript
// Define types for the webhook request
interface SessionVariables {
  [key: string]: string;
}

interface Session {
  role: string;
  variables: SessionVariables;
}

interface NdcRequest {
  request_arguments?: {
    [key: string]: any;
  };
  [key: string]: any;
}

interface WebhookRequest {
  session: Session;
  ndcRequest: NdcRequest;
  dataConnectorName: string;
  operationType: "query" | "queryExplain" | "mutation" | "mutationExplain";
  ndcVersion: string;
}
```

### Add routing logic to the webhook

Update `webhook/src/server.ts` to add the routing endpoint:

```typescript
// Global counter for round-robin selection
// Note we are relying on server state here. A more robust implementation would use something like redis
// This would also not work as intended in a lambda
let currentFollowerIndex = 0;
const followerConnections = ["follower1", "follower2", "follower3"];

// Main webhook endpoint
app.post("/pre/ndc", (req: Request<{}, {}, WebhookRequest>, res: Response) => {
  try {
    console.log("Received webhook request:", JSON.stringify(req.body, null, 2));

    const requestData = req.body;

    // Initialize request_arguments if not present
    if (!requestData.ndcRequest.request_arguments) {
      requestData.ndcRequest.request_arguments = {};
    }

    // Route mutations to primary database
    if (requestData.operationType === "mutation" || requestData.operationType === "mutationExplain") {
      requestData.ndcRequest.request_arguments["connection_name"] = "primary";
      console.log("Routing mutation to primary database");
    } else {
      // Route queries to read replicas using round-robin
      const selectedFollower = followerConnections[currentFollowerIndex];

      // Increment the index for the next request
      currentFollowerIndex = (currentFollowerIndex + 1) % followerConnections.length;

      console.log(`Round-robin selected connection: ${selectedFollower}`);

      requestData.ndcRequest.request_arguments["connection_name"] = selectedFollower;
    }

    res.json({
      ndcRequest: requestData.ndcRequest,
    });
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error in webhook:", error);
    res.status(500).json({
      error: "Internal server error",
      message: error instanceof Error ? error.message : "Unknown error",
    });
  }
});
```

### Add webhook to Docker Compose

Update your main `compose.yaml` file to include the webhook service:

```yaml
services:
  # ... your existing services (engine, otel-collector, etc.)

  webhook:
    build:
      context: webhook
      dockerfile: Dockerfile
    ports:
      - 3033:3033
    extra_hosts:
      - local.hasura.dev:host-gateway
    restart: unless-stopped

  # ... rest of your services
```

We should now have a webhook capable of routing requests to the appropriate database based on the operation type.

## Step 3: Configure the lifecycle plugin hook

Finally, we'll configure the lifecycle plugin hook to intercept requests and add the webhook URL environment mapping.

### Add the lifecycle plugin hook

Create or update `app/metadata/mypostgres.hml` to include the lifecycle plugin hook:

```yaml
kind: LifecyclePluginHook
version: v1
definition:
  pre: ndcRequest
  name: dynamic_routing
  url:
    valueFromEnv: APP_PRE_NDC_WEBHOOK_URL
  connectors:
    - mypostgres
  config:
    request:
      session: {}
      ndcRequest: {}

---
# ... your existing DataConnectorLink and other configurations
```

### Add webhook URL environment mapping

Update your `.env` file to include the webhook URL:

```bash
# Webhook URL
APP_PRE_NDC_WEBHOOK_URL=http://webhook:3033/pre/ndc
```

### Add webhook URL environment mapping

Update `app/subgraph.yaml` to include the webhook URL environment mapping:

```yaml
kind: Subgraph
version: v2
definition:
  name: app
  generator:
    rootPath: .
    namingConvention: graphql
  includePaths:
    - metadata
  envMapping:
    APP_MYPOSTGRES_AUTHORIZATION_HEADER:
      fromEnv: APP_MYPOSTGRES_AUTHORIZATION_HEADER
    APP_MYPOSTGRES_READ_URL:
      fromEnv: APP_MYPOSTGRES_READ_URL
    APP_MYPOSTGRES_WRITE_URL:
      fromEnv: APP_MYPOSTGRES_WRITE_URL
    # add these two lines
    APP_PRE_NDC_WEBHOOK_URL:
      fromEnv: APP_PRE_NDC_WEBHOOK_URL
  connectors:
    - path: connector/mypostgres/connector.yaml
      connectorLinkName: mypostgres
```

Learn more about [lifecycle plugin hooks](/reference/metadata-reference/engine-plugins.mdx).

We should now have a complete setup for dynamic routing with read/write splitting and load balancing.

## Step 4: Test the dynamic routing

1. **Build and start the services:**

   ```bash
   ddn supergraph build local
   ddn run docker-start
   ```

2. **Test a query (should use read replica):**

   ```graphql
   query {
     table {
       id
       name
     }
   }
   ```

3. **Test a mutation (should use primary):**

   ```graphql
   mutation {
     insert_table(objects: [{ name: "test" }]) {
       affected_rows
       returning {
         id
         name
       }
     }
   }
   ```

4. **Check the webhook logs** to see the routing decisions:
   ```bash
   docker logs dynamic-demo-webhook-1
   ```

Commit message:

add note on complexity and how this is an example

docs/reference/connectors/postgresql/dynamic-connections-tutorial.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_label: Dynamic Connections Tutorial
description: "A tutorial for implementing dynamic connections with PostgreSQL connector"
keywords:
  - postgresql
  - dynamic connections
  - read replicas
  - load balancing
  - webhook
---

# Dynamic Connections Tutorial

## Introduction

This tutorial demonstrates how to use dynamic connections with the PostgreSQL connector to implement read/write
splitting and load balancing. We'll configure a primary database for writes and multiple read replicas for queries, with
automatic routing based on operation type.

:::info A note on complexity

This architecture may seem overly complicated for the simple goal of supporting read replicas. And, it is!

In this tutorial, we use read replicas as an example to demonstrate a much more powerful feature. For example, you could
route requests to different databases based on the user's location, or the time of day, or any other criteria you can
imagine.

For simple use cases, prefer using the built-in read-write connector url feature, where you deploy a connector for reads
and another for writes.

:::

## Overview

The dynamic connection routing system uses a pre-NDC webhook to intercept requests before they reach the PostgreSQL
connector, allowing us to route operations to different databases based on the operation type.

```mermaid
---
title: Dynamic Connection Routing Flow
---
graph TD
    Client[Client] -->|1. GraphQL Request| Engine[Hasura Engine]
    Engine -->|2. Ndc Request + Session| Webhook["Pre-NDC Hook<br />• Receive NDC request + session<br/>• Check operation type<br/>• Add connection_name request argument<br/>• Return modified request"]
    Webhook -->|3. Modified NDC Request| Engine
    Engine -->|4. Modified NDC Request| Connector["PostgreSQL Connector<br \>Use connection_name request argument to choose database credentials"]
    Connector -->|5. Query| Database[(Selected Database)]
    Database -->|6. Results| Connector
    Connector -->|7. NDC Response| Engine
    Engine -->|8. GraphQL Response| Client

    style Webhook fill:#fff2cc,stroke:#d6b656
    style Database fill:#e1d5e7,stroke:#9673a6
    style Connector fill:#ccffcc
```

### Request Flow

1. **Client sends GraphQL request** to Hasura Engine
2. **Engine triggers pre-NDC hook**, sending request details to the webhook
3. **Webhook analyzes operation type** and adds appropriate `connection_name` to the request
4. **Engine forwards modified request** to PostgreSQL connector with `connection_name` parameter
5. **Connector routes to selected database** based on the `connection_name`
6. **Database processes query** and returns results
7. **Results flow back** through connector → engine → client

## Prerequisites

This tutorial demonstrates how to use dynamic connections with the PostgreSQL connector to implement read/write
splitting and load balancing. Before we begin configuring dynamic routing, you'll need to complete these setup steps:

### 1. Create a Hasura DDN project

If you haven't already, create a new Hasura DDN project with a PostgreSQL connector:

```bash
ddn supergraph init myproject
cd myproject
ddn connector init -i  # select hasura/postgres, use defaults for all options
```

### 2. Set up multiple databases

For this tutorial, we'll simulate a primary-replica setup using a single PostgreSQL instance with multiple databases. In
production, these would be separate database servers.

#### Create the database initialization script

Create `app/connector/mypostgres/init-scripts/init-db.sql`:

```sql
-- Create the primary database and tables
\c primary;

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS "table" (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  name TEXT NOT NULL
);

INSERT INTO "table" (name) VALUES
  ('Primary Record 1'),
  ('Primary Record 2'),
  ('Primary Record 3');

-- Create follower databases
CREATE DATABASE follower1;
CREATE DATABASE follower2;
CREATE DATABASE follower3;

-- Connect to follower1 and create the same schema
\c follower1;

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS "table" (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  name TEXT NOT NULL
);

INSERT INTO "table" (name) VALUES
  ('Follower1 Record 1'),
  ('Follower1 Record 2'),
  ('Follower1 Record 3');

-- Connect to follower2 and create the same schema
\c follower2;

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS "table" (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  name TEXT NOT NULL
);

INSERT INTO "table" (name) VALUES
  ('Follower2 Record 1'),
  ('Follower2 Record 2'),
  ('Follower2 Record 3');

-- Connect to follower3 and create the same schema
\c follower3;

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS "table" (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  name TEXT NOT NULL
);

INSERT INTO "table" (name) VALUES
  ('Follower3 Record 1'),
  ('Follower3 Record 2'),
  ('Follower3 Record 3');
```

#### Update the PostgreSQL compose configuration

Update `app/connector/mypostgres/compose.postgres-adminer.yaml` to include the initialization script:

```yaml
services:
  postgres:
    environment:
      POSTGRES_DB: primary # change name of default db to primary
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: password
      POSTGRES_USER: user
    image: pgvector/pgvector:pg17
    ports:
      - 8241:5432
    restart: unless-stopped
    volumes:
      - db_data:/var/lib/postgresql/data
      - ./init-scripts:/docker-entrypoint-initdb.d # map the init script

volumes:
  db_data:
```

#### Restart the database to apply initialization

If you already have the database running, you'll need to restart it to run the initialization script:

```bash
docker compose -f app/connector/mypostgres/compose.postgres-adminer.yaml down -v
docker compose -f app/connector/mypostgres/compose.postgres-adminer.yaml up -d
```

The `-v` flag removes the volumes, ensuring the database starts fresh and runs the initialization script.

### 3. Create the webhook runtime environment

Set up a webhook server that will handle the dynamic routing logic. In this tutorial, we'll create a simple
Node.js/Express server, but in production you would typically use your preferred hosting platform (AWS Lambda, Vercel,
Railway, etc.).

#### Set up the webhook project structure

Create the webhook directory and files:

```bash
mkdir -p webhook/src
```

#### Create package.json

Create `webhook/package.json`:

```json
{
  "name": "hasura-webhook-server",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "Pre-NDC request webhook server for Hasura",
  "main": "dist/server.js",
  "scripts": {
    "build": "tsc",
    "start": "node dist/server.js",
    "dev": "ts-node src/server.ts"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "express": "^4.18.2"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "@types/express": "^4.17.17",
    "@types/node": "^18.15.11",
    "ts-node": "^10.9.1",
    "typescript": "^5.0.4"
  }
}
```

#### Create TypeScript configuration

Create `webhook/tsconfig.json`:

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "target": "ES2020",
    "module": "commonjs",
    "outDir": "./dist",
    "rootDir": "./src",
    "strict": true,
    "esModuleInterop": true,
    "skipLibCheck": true,
    "forceConsistentCasingInFileNames": true,
    "resolveJsonModule": true
  },
  "include": ["src/**/*"],
  "exclude": ["node_modules", "dist"]
}
```

#### Create the basic server

Create `webhook/src/server.ts`:

```typescript
import express, { Request, Response } from "express";

const app = express();
const PORT = process.env.PORT ? parseInt(process.env.PORT, 10) : 3033;
const HOST = process.env.HOST || "0.0.0.0";

// Middleware for parsing JSON
app.use(express.json());

// Health check endpoint
app.get("/ping", (req: Request, res: Response) => {
  res.json({ status: "ok" });
});

// 404 handler
app.use((req: Request, res: Response) => {
  console.log("404 Not Found for:", req.url);
  res.status(404).json({ error: "Not found" });
});

// Start the server
app.listen(PORT, HOST, () => {
  console.log(`Webhook server running at http://${HOST}:${PORT}`);
});
```

#### Create the Dockerfile

Create `webhook/Dockerfile`:

```dockerfile
FROM node:18-alpine

WORKDIR /app

# Copy package.json and package-lock.json
COPY package*.json ./
RUN npm install

# Copy TypeScript configuration and source code
COPY tsconfig.json ./
COPY src ./src

# Build TypeScript code
RUN npm run build

EXPOSE 3033

CMD ["npm", "start"]
```

## Step 1: Update connector configuration for dynamic connections

First, we need to configure the PostgreSQL connector to support multiple database connections and update the environment
variables.

### Update connector configuration

Update `app/connector/mypostgres/configuration.json` to include dynamic connection settings:

```json
{
  "version": "5",
  "$schema": "schema.json",
  "connectionSettings": {
    "connectionUri": {
      "variable": "CONNECTION_URI"
    },
    "poolSettings": {
      "maxConnections": 50,
      "poolTimeout": 30,
      "idleTimeout": 180,
      "checkConnectionAfterIdle": 60,
      "connectionLifetime": 600
    },
    "isolationLevel": "ReadCommitted",
    "dynamicSettings": {
      "mode": "named",
      "connectionUris": {
        "map": {
          "primary": {
            "variable": "CONNECTION_URI"
          },
          "follower1": {
            "variable": "CONNECTION_URI_FOLLOWER1"
          },
          "follower2": {
            "variable": "CONNECTION_URI_FOLLOWER2"
          },
          "follower3": {
            "variable": "CONNECTION_URI_FOLLOWER3"
          }
        }
      },
      "fallbackToStatic": false,
      "eagerConnections": true
    }
  },
  "metadata": {
    // ... your existing metadata configuration
  }
}
```

### Add environment variables

Update your `.env` file to include the new connection strings:

```bash
# Primary database (for writes)
APP_MYPOSTGRES_CONNECTION_URI=postgresql://user:password@localhost:8241/primary

# Read replica connections
APP_MYPOSTGRES_CONNECTION_URI_FOLLOWER1=postgresql://user:password@localhost:8241/follower1
APP_MYPOSTGRES_CONNECTION_URI_FOLLOWER2=postgresql://user:password@localhost:8241/follower2
APP_MYPOSTGRES_CONNECTION_URI_FOLLOWER3=postgresql://user:password@localhost:8241/follower3
```

### Update connector environment mapping

Update `app/connector/mypostgres/connector.yaml` to include the new environment variables:

```yaml
kind: Connector
version: v2
definition:
  name: mypostgres
  subgraph: app
  source: hasura/postgres:v3.0.0
  context: .
  envMapping:
    CONNECTION_URI:
      fromEnv: APP_MYPOSTGRES_CONNECTION_URI
    CONNECTION_URI_FOLLOWER1:
      fromEnv: APP_MYPOSTGRES_CONNECTION_URI_FOLLOWER1
    CONNECTION_URI_FOLLOWER2:
      fromEnv: APP_MYPOSTGRES_CONNECTION_URI_FOLLOWER2
    CONNECTION_URI_FOLLOWER3:
      fromEnv: APP_MYPOSTGRES_CONNECTION_URI_FOLLOWER3
    # ... your existing environment mappings
```

Our connector should now expect a `connection_name` request level argument with every request, and route accordingly.

## Step 2: Implement the routing webhook

Now we'll add the actual routing logic to our webhook server and include it in the Docker Compose setup.

### Add type definitions

First, add the TypeScript interfaces for the webhook request. Add these to the top of `webhook/src/server.ts`:

```typescript
// Define types for the webhook request
interface SessionVariables {
  [key: string]: string;
}

interface Session {
  role: string;
  variables: SessionVariables;
}

interface NdcRequest {
  request_arguments?: {
    [key: string]: any;
  };
  [key: string]: any;
}

interface WebhookRequest {
  session: Session;
  ndcRequest: NdcRequest;
  dataConnectorName: string;
  operationType: "query" | "queryExplain" | "mutation" | "mutationExplain";
  ndcVersion: string;
}
```

### Add routing logic to the webhook

Update `webhook/src/server.ts` to add the routing endpoint:

```typescript
// Global counter for round-robin selection
// Note we are relying on server state here. A more robust implementation would use something like redis
// This would also not work as intended in a lambda
let currentFollowerIndex = 0;
const followerConnections = ["follower1", "follower2", "follower3"];

// Main webhook endpoint
app.post("/pre/ndc", (req: Request<{}, {}, WebhookRequest>, res: Response) => {
  try {
    console.log("Received webhook request:", JSON.stringify(req.body, null, 2));

    const requestData = req.body;

    // Initialize request_arguments if not present
    if (!requestData.ndcRequest.request_arguments) {
      requestData.ndcRequest.request_arguments = {};
    }

    // Route mutations to primary database
    if (requestData.operationType === "mutation" || requestData.operationType === "mutationExplain") {
      requestData.ndcRequest.request_arguments["connection_name"] = "primary";
      console.log("Routing mutation to primary database");
    } else {
      // Route queries to read replicas using round-robin
      const selectedFollower = followerConnections[currentFollowerIndex];

      // Increment the index for the next request
      currentFollowerIndex = (currentFollowerIndex + 1) % followerConnections.length;

      console.log(`Round-robin selected connection: ${selectedFollower}`);

      requestData.ndcRequest.request_arguments["connection_name"] = selectedFollower;
    }

    res.json({
      ndcRequest: requestData.ndcRequest,
    });
  } catch (error) {
    console.error("Error in webhook:", error);
    res.status(500).json({
      error: "Internal server error",
      message: error instanceof Error ? error.message : "Unknown error",
    });
  }
});
```

### Add webhook to Docker Compose

Update your main `compose.yaml` file to include the webhook service:

```yaml
services:
  # ... your existing services (engine, otel-collector, etc.)

  webhook:
    build:
      context: webhook
      dockerfile: Dockerfile
    ports:
      - 3033:3033
    extra_hosts:
      - local.hasura.dev:host-gateway
    restart: unless-stopped

  # ... rest of your services
```

We should now have a webhook capable of routing requests to the appropriate database based on the operation type.

## Step 3: Configure the lifecycle plugin hook

Finally, we'll configure the lifecycle plugin hook to intercept requests and add the webhook URL environment mapping.

### Add the lifecycle plugin hook

Create or update `app/metadata/mypostgres.hml` to include the lifecycle plugin hook:

```yaml
kind: LifecyclePluginHook
version: v1
definition:
  pre: ndcRequest
  name: dynamic_routing
  url:
    valueFromEnv: APP_PRE_NDC_WEBHOOK_URL
  connectors:
    - mypostgres
  config:
    request:
      session: {}
      ndcRequest: {}

---
# ... your existing DataConnectorLink and other configurations
```

### Add webhook URL environment mapping

Update your `.env` file to include the webhook URL:

```bash
# Webhook URL
APP_PRE_NDC_WEBHOOK_URL=http://webhook:3033/pre/ndc
```

### Add webhook URL environment mapping

Update `app/subgraph.yaml` to include the webhook URL environment mapping:

```yaml
kind: Subgraph
version: v2
definition:
  name: app
  generator:
    rootPath: .
    namingConvention: graphql
  includePaths:
    - metadata
  envMapping:
    APP_MYPOSTGRES_AUTHORIZATION_HEADER:
      fromEnv: APP_MYPOSTGRES_AUTHORIZATION_HEADER
    APP_MYPOSTGRES_READ_URL:
      fromEnv: APP_MYPOSTGRES_READ_URL
    APP_MYPOSTGRES_WRITE_URL:
      fromEnv: APP_MYPOSTGRES_WRITE_URL
    # add these two lines
    APP_PRE_NDC_WEBHOOK_URL:
      fromEnv: APP_PRE_NDC_WEBHOOK_URL
  connectors:
    - path: connector/mypostgres/connector.yaml
      connectorLinkName: mypostgres
```

Learn more about [lifecycle plugin hooks](/reference/metadata-reference/engine-plugins.mdx).

We should now have a complete setup for dynamic routing with read/write splitting and load balancing.

## Step 4: Test the dynamic routing

1. **Build and start the services:**

   ```bash
   ddn supergraph build local
   ddn run docker-start
   ```

2. **Test a query (should use read replica):**

   ```graphql
   query {
     table {
       id
       name
     }
   }
   ```

3. **Test a mutation (should use primary):**

   ```graphql
   mutation {
     insert_table(objects: [{ name: "test" }]) {
       affected_rows
       returning {
         id
         name
       }
     }
   }
   ```

4. **Check the webhook logs** to see the routing decisions:
   ```bash
   docker logs dynamic-demo-webhook-1
   ```
