docs/json-api/errors.mdx, before:

---
title: JSON:API Error Responses
sidebar_label: Errors
sidebar_position: 2
description: "Learn about error responses from the Hasura DDN JSON:API"
keywords:
  - errors
  - api errors
  - json:api errors
  - internal errors
  - rest api errors
seoFrontMatterUpdated: true
---

# JSON:API Error Responses

## Introduction

When a request to the JSON:API endpoint fails, Hasura returns error responses that conform to the
[JSON:API specification](https://jsonapi.org/format/#errors). Each error response includes appropriate HTTP status codes
and a structured error document.

## Error Format

Error responses are returned as JSON objects containing an `errors` array. Each error object in the array includes:

```json
{
  "errors": [
    {
      "status": "404",
      "detail": "invalid route or path"
    }
  ]
}
```

- `status`: The HTTP status code applicable to this error (as a string)
- `detail`: A human-readable explanation of the error

## Common Status Codes

The API uses standard HTTP status codes to indicate the type of error:

- `400 Bad Request`: Invalid request syntax or parameters
- `401 Unauthorized`: Missing or invalid authentication
- `403 Forbidden`: Valid authentication but insufficient permissions
- `404 Not Found`: Requested resource doesn't exist
- `500 Internal Server Error`: Unexpected server-side error

## Error Types

### Request Errors

Request errors occur when the client sends an invalid request. These include:

```json
{
  "errors": [
    {
      "status": "400",
      "detail": "Invalid filter parameter: unknown operator 'contains'"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Permission Errors

When a user attempts to access a resource without proper permissions:

```json
{
  "errors": [
    {
      "status": "403",
      "detail": "Access forbidden"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Internal Errors

For security reasons, internal errors return a generic message without exposing implementation details:

```json
{
  "errors": [
    {
      "status": "500",
      "detail": "Internal error"
    }
  ]
}
```

:::note Error Tracing While error responses to clients are intentionally generic for security, detailed error
information is available in the [request traces](/observability/built-in/traces.mdx) for debugging purposes. :::

Commit message:

Docs Review
Simplifies the overview page and makes it in line with other overviews (i.e., Basics) such as the GraphQL API docs.

Review: Standarize the queries section

Standarizes the query section to use `title` for code blocks and fix formatting standards.

Review: Standarize errors

Standardizes errors formatting while also making a small teapot joke.

Review: Reflow schema page

Reflows the schema page to front-load information about integrations and use-cases.

docs/json-api/errors.mdx, after:

---
title: JSON:API Error Responses
sidebar_label: Errors
sidebar_position: 2
description: "Learn about error responses from the Hasura DDN JSON:API"
keywords:
  - errors
  - api errors
  - json:api errors
  - internal errors
  - rest api errors
---

# JSON:API Error Responses

## Introduction

When a request to the JSON:API endpoint fails, Hasura returns error responses that conform to the
[JSON:API specification](https://jsonapi.org/format/#errors). Each error response includes appropriate HTTP status codes
and a structured error document.

## Error format

Error responses are returned as JSON objects containing an `errors` array.

```json title="Each error object in the array a status code and message:"
{
  "errors": [
    {
      "status": "404",
      "detail": "invalid route or path"
    }
  ]
}
```

| Parameter | Description                                                  | Example          |
| --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------- |
| `status`  | The HTTP status code applicable to this error (as a string). | `"418"`          |
| `detail`  | A human-readable explanation of the error.                   | `"I'm a teapot"` |

## Common status codes

The API uses [standard HTTP status codes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status) to indicate the type
of error:

- `400 Bad Request`: Invalid request syntax or parameters
- `401 Unauthorized`: Missing or invalid authentication
- `403 Forbidden`: Valid authentication but insufficient permissions
- `404 Not Found`: Requested resource doesn't exist
- `500 Internal Server Error`: Unexpected server-side error

## Error Types

### Request Errors

```json title="Request errors occur when the client sends an invalid request. E.g.:"
{
  "errors": [
    {
      "status": "400",
      "detail": "Invalid filter parameter: unknown operator 'contains'"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Permission Errors

```json title="When a user attempts to access a resource without proper permissions:"
{
  "errors": [
    {
      "status": "403",
      "detail": "Access forbidden"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Internal Errors

```json title="For security reasons, internal errors return a generic message without exposing implementation details:"
{
  "errors": [
    {
      "status": "500",
      "detail": "Internal error"
    }
  ]
}
```

:::info Debugging Errors

Error responses to clients are intentionally generic for security reasons. However, detailed error information is
available in the [request traces](/observability/built-in/traces.mdx) for debugging purposes.

:::
