docs/json-api/schema.mdx, before:

---
description: "Learn how to use Hasura's JSON:API schema endpoint to explore and integrate with your API"
title: JSON:API Schema
sidebar_label: Schema
keywords:
  - hasura
  - json:api
  - openapi
  - schema
  - rest
  - api
  - documentation
sidebar_position: 3
seoFrontMatterUpdated: true
---

# JSON:API Schema

## Introduction

Hasura DDN provides an [OpenAPI 3.1](https://swagger.io/specification/) schema endpoint for the JSON:API interface. This
endpoint allows you to explore your API's structure, test endpoints, and generate client code using standard OpenAPI
tooling.

## Schema Endpoint

To retrieve the OpenAPI specification for your JSON:API endpoints, send a GET request to:

```http
GET /v1/rest/__schema
```

The response will be a standard OpenAPI 3.1 specification in JSON format, describing all available endpoints, models,
and operations.

### Authentication

The schema endpoint follows the same authentication rules as your other API endpoints. Make sure to include appropriate
authentication headers as configured in your [authentication settings](/auth/overview.mdx).

### Response Format

The response is a JSON document conforming to the OpenAPI 3.1 specification. It includes:

- API information and version
- Available endpoints and operations
- Model schemas and relationships
- Request/response formats

Example Response:

```json
{
  "openapi": "3.1.0",
  "info": {
    "title": "Hasura JSONAPI (alpha)",
    "description": "REST API generated to match the JSON:API spec: https://jsonapi.org",
    "version": "0.1"
  },
  "paths": {
    // Available endpoints and operations
  },
  "components": {
    // Reusable components and schemas
  }
}
```

## Using the Schema

The OpenAPI specification enables various use cases:

1. **API Documentation**: Import the schema into tools like Swagger UI or Redoc to generate interactive documentation
2. **Code Generation**: Generate client code using OpenAPI code generators
3. **API Testing**: Use tools like Postman to import the schema and test endpoints
4. **Type Generation**: Generate type definitions for your preferred programming language

## Integration Examples

### Swagger UI

To view your API documentation in Swagger UI:

1. Visit [Swagger Editor](https://editor.swagger.io)
2. Copy your schema JSON from the `/__schema` endpoint
3. Paste it into the editor

### Postman

To import your API into Postman:

1. Copy the URL of your schema endpoint
2. In Postman, click "Import" > "OpenAPI"
3. Paste the URL or import the JSON directly

### Learn More

- [Query your data with JSON:API](/json-api/queries/index.mdx)
- [Filter query results](/json-api/queries/filters.mdx)
- [Include relationships](/json-api/queries/relationships.mdx)
- [Sort query results](/json-api/queries/sorting.mdx)
- [Paginate through results](/json-api/queries/pagination.mdx)

Commit message:

Docs Review
Simplifies the overview page and makes it in line with other overviews (i.e., Basics) such as the GraphQL API docs.

Review: Standarize the queries section

Standarizes the query section to use `title` for code blocks and fix formatting standards.

Review: Standarize errors

Standardizes errors formatting while also making a small teapot joke.

Review: Reflow schema page

Reflows the schema page to front-load information about integrations and use-cases.

docs/json-api/schema.mdx, after:

---
description: "Learn how to use Hasura's JSON:API schema endpoint to explore and integrate with your API"
title: JSON:API Schema
sidebar_label: Schema
keywords:
  - hasura
  - json:api
  - openapi
  - schema
  - rest
  - api
  - documentation
sidebar_position: 3
---

# JSON:API Schema

## Introduction

Hasura DDN provides an [OpenAPI 3.1](https://swagger.io/specification/) schema endpoint for the JSON:API interface,
making it easier to explore, test, and integrate with your API. This schema gives you a complete overview of your API's
structure, including available endpoints, models, and operations.

With the OpenAPI specification, you can generate interactive documentation using tools like Swagger UI or Redoc, making
it simple to explore and understand your API. If you're building a client application, OpenAPI code generators can help
you quickly scaffold client code. For testing, you can import the schema into Postman to validate requests and
responses. Additionally, the schema enables automatic type generation for various programming languages, ensuring type
safety in your applications.

By leveraging this schema, you can streamline API development, debugging, and integration, all while maintaining a
standardized approach to working with JSON:API in Hasura DDN.

## Schema endpoint

```http title="To retrieve the OpenAPI specification for your JSON:API endpoints, send a GET request to:"
GET /v1/rest/__schema
```

The response will be a standard OpenAPI 3.1 specification in JSON format, describing all available endpoints, models,
and operations.

### Authentication

The schema endpoint follows the same authentication rules as your other API endpoints. Make sure to include appropriate
authentication headers as configured in your [authentication settings](/auth/overview.mdx).

### Response format

The response is a JSON document conforming to the OpenAPI 3.1 specification. It includes:

- API information and version
- Available endpoints and operations
- Model schemas and relationships
- Request/response formats

```json title="Example response:"
{
  "openapi": "3.1.0",
  "info": {
    "title": "Hasura JSONAPI (alpha)",
    "description": "REST API generated to match the JSON:API spec: https://jsonapi.org",
    "version": "0.1"
  },
  "paths": {
    // Available endpoints and operations
  },
  "components": {
    // Reusable components and schemas
  }
}
```

## Integration examples

### Swagger UI

To view your API documentation in Swagger UI:

1. Visit [Swagger Editor](https://editor.swagger.io)
2. Copy your schema JSON from the `/__schema` endpoint
3. Paste it into the editor

### Postman

To import your API into Postman:

1. Copy the URL of your schema endpoint
2. In Postman, click "Import" > "OpenAPI"
3. Paste the URL or import the JSON directly

## Learn more

- [Query your data with JSON:API](/json-api/queries/index.mdx)
- [Filter query results](/json-api/queries/filters.mdx)
- [Include relationships](/json-api/queries/relationships.mdx)
- [Sort query results](/json-api/queries/sorting.mdx)
- [Paginate through results](/json-api/queries/pagination.mdx)
