docs/project-configuration/builds.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 6
sidebar_label: Builds
description:
  "Learn about Hasura Data Delivery Network's (DDN) build management. Understand how to create, apply, and delete builds
  associated with your projects, the importance of the build lifecycle, and testing your API. Also, discover how to
  leverage Hasura CLI commands for smoother transitions from development to production."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - builds management
  - hasura projects
  - hasura supergraph
  - api testing
  - hasura cli
  - metadata.hml
  - graphql api development
  - data connectivity
  - hasura cloud
seoFrontMatterUpdated: true
---

# Supergraph Builds

## Introduction

A supergraph build is a fully-functional, immutable [supergraph](/basics/core-concepts.mdx#supergraph) API which is
generated based on your project's configuration.

Supergraph builds can be used to incrementally test your project's API with a unique build URL.

While there can be many supergraph builds for a project, only one can be **applied** at a time. The applied supergraph
build is the one that is currently serving your API from the project's endpoint.

You can create a supergraph build locally or in the cloud on Hasura DDN.

They are lightweight and can be created as often as you like to check your changes.

Builds are simply a large set of JSON objects that describe the supergraph. The Hasura engine then uses this description
to serve your API.

:::info Getting started

Follow the steps in the [Quickstart](/getting-started/quickstart) to set up a project with a supergraph, in order work
with builds.

:::

## Create a new supergraph build

To create a supergraph build, you'll first need a [Hasura DDN project](/project-configuration/projects.mdx). After
which, you can create a cloud supergraph build using the following command:

```bash
ddn supergraph build create --supergraph ./supergraph.cloud.yaml --project <project-name>
```

:::info Cloud and local builds

For cloud builds you first need your [cloud project and subgraphs](/deployment/deployment/01-create-a-project.mdx) set
up.

To create a local supergraph build, switch out the `supergraph.cloud.yaml` file with the `supergraph. local.yaml` file.

:::

The CLI will return information about your supergraph build:

```text
+---------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Build Version | 606b3d797d                                                       |
+---------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Build URL     | https://stunning-eagle-6335-dev-606b3d797d.ddn.hasura.me/graphql |
+---------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Console Url   | https://console.hasura.com/project/stunning-eagle-6335/graphql   |
+---------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+
| FQDN          | stunning-eagle-6335-dev-606b3d797d.ddn.hasura.me                 |
+---------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Description   |                                                                  |
+---------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

## List all supergraph builds

You can list all supergraph builds created in a project using the following command:

```bash
ddn supergraph build get --project <project-name>
```

## Apply a supergraph build to its project

When you are happy with your build, you can apply it to the project using the following command:

```bash
ddn supergraph build apply <build-version> --project <project-name>
```

## Delete a supergraph build

Supergraph builds can be individually deleted using the following command:

```bash
ddn supergraph build delete <build-version> --project <project-name>
```

All supergraph builds for a project are deleted when a [project is deleted](/project-configuration/projects.mdx#delete).

Commit message:

move content to project configuration

docs/project-configuration/builds.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 6
sidebar_label: Supergraph Builds
description:
  "Learn about Hasura Data Delivery Network's (DDN) build management. Understand how to create, apply, and delete builds
  associated with your projects, the importance of the build lifecycle, and testing your API. Also, discover how to
  leverage Hasura CLI commands for smoother transitions from development to production."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - builds management
  - hasura projects
  - hasura supergraph
  - api testing
  - hasura cli
  - metadata.hml
  - graphql api development
  - data connectivity
  - hasura cloud
seoFrontMatterUpdated: true
---

import Thumbnail from "@site/src/components/Thumbnail";

# Supergraph Builds

## Introduction

A supergraph build is a fully-functional, immutable [supergraph](/basics/core-concepts.mdx#supergraph) API which is
generated based on your project's configuration.

Supergraph builds can be used to incrementally test your project's API with a unique build URL.

While there can be many supergraph builds for a project, only one can be **applied** at a time. The applied supergraph
build is the one that is currently serving your API from the project's endpoint.

You can create a supergraph build locally or in the cloud on Hasura DDN.

They are lightweight and can be created as often as you like to check your changes.

Builds are simply a large set of JSON objects that describe the supergraph. The Hasura engine then uses this description
to serve your API.

:::info Getting started

Follow the steps in the [Quickstart](/getting-started/quickstart) to set up a project with a supergraph, in order work
with builds.

:::

## Create a new supergraph build

To create a supergraph build, you'll first need a [Hasura DDN project](/project-configuration/projects.mdx). After
which, you can create a cloud supergraph build using the following command:

```bash
ddn supergraph build create --supergraph ./supergraph.cloud.yaml --project <project-name>
```

:::info Cloud and local builds

For cloud builds you first need your [cloud project and subgraphs](/deployment/deployment/01-create-a-project.mdx) set
up.

To create a local supergraph build, switch out the `supergraph.cloud.yaml` file with the `supergraph. local.yaml` file.

:::

The CLI will return information about your supergraph build:

```text
+---------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Build Version | 606b3d797d                                                       |
+---------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Build URL     | https://stunning-eagle-6335-dev-606b3d797d.ddn.hasura.me/graphql |
+---------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Console Url   | https://console.hasura.com/project/stunning-eagle-6335/graphql   |
+---------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+
| FQDN          | stunning-eagle-6335-dev-606b3d797d.ddn.hasura.me                 |
+---------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Description   |                                                                  |
+---------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

## List all supergraph builds from the CLI

You can list all supergraph builds created in a project using the following command:

```bash
ddn supergraph build get --project <project-name>
```

## List Supergraph Builds from Console

To view and manage your Supergraph builds:

1. Go to the Hasura DDN console.
2. Select your project (ensure you have at least one Supergraph build).
3. Navigate to the Builds section in the sidebar.
4. The Supergraph Builds tab will be selected by default.
5. You'll see a table listing all your Supergraph builds.

<Thumbnail src="/img/builds/supergraph_builds_list.png" alt="Supergraph Builds Table" width="700px" />

From the Supergraph Builds table, you can:

- View details of each build
- Delete a build
- Apply a build to your project

## Apply a supergraph build to its project

When you are happy with your build, you can apply it to the project using the following command:

```bash
ddn supergraph build apply <build-version> --project <project-name>
```

## Delete a supergraph build

Supergraph builds can be individually deleted using the following command:

```bash
ddn supergraph build delete <build-version> --project <project-name>
```

All supergraph builds for a project are deleted when a [project is deleted](/project-configuration/projects.mdx#delete).
