docs/data-sources/connect-to-a-source.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: Connect to a Source
description: "Learn how to connect any data source to Hasrua DDN."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - data sources
  - connect
  - data connector
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

# Connect to a source

## Introduction

This guide explains how to initialize a connector, configure its environment variables, and link it to your data source.
Once initialized, you'll be ready to introspect the source and integrate it into your API.

You'll need a [project](/reference/cli/commands/ddn_supergraph_init.mdx) before initializing a connector.

## Step 1. Initialize a connector

Regardless which connector you're using, you'll always begin by initializing it with a unique name:

```sh title="Initialize a new connector in a project directory:"
ddn connector init <your_name_for_the_connector> -i
```

A wizard will appear with a dropdown list. If you know the name of the connector, start typing the name. Otherwise, use
the arrows to scroll through the list. Hit `ENTER` when you've selected your desired connector; you'll then be prompted
to enter some values.

:::info Customization

You can customize which subgraph this connector is added to by
[changing your project's context](/reference/cli/commands/ddn_context.mdx) or using flags. More information can be found
in the [CLI docs](/reference/cli/commands/ddn_connector_init.mdx) for the `ddn connector init` command.

:::

## Step 2. Add environment variables

The CLI will assign a random port for the connector to use during local development. You can hit `ENTER` to accept the
suggested value or enter your own. Then, depending on your connector, there may be a set of environment variables that
it requires:

<Tabs groupId="source-preference" className="api-tabs">

<TabItem value="ClickHouse" label="ClickHouse">

| ENV                 | Example             | Description                                               |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| `CONNECTION_STRING` | `https://host:8123` | The HTTP(S) connection string to the ClickHouse instance. |
| `USERNAME`          | `default`           | The database username.                                    |
| `PASSWORD`          | `default`           | The database password.                                    |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="DuckDB" label="DuckDB">

| ENV          | Example             | Description                                                                              |
| ------------ | ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `DUCKDB_URL` | `/path/to/*.duckdb` | The path to the DuckDB database file which will be mounted to the connector's container. |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Elasticsearch" label="Elasticsearch">

| ENV                           | Example                                                        | Description                                                                                                                                                                |
| ----------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `ELASTICSEARCH_URL`           | `https://example.es.gcp.cloud.es.io:9200`                      | The comma-separated list of Elasticsearch host addresses for connection (Use `local.hasura.dev` instead of `localhost` if your connector is running on your local machine) |
| `ELASTICSEARCH_USERNAME`      | `default`                                                      | The username for authenticating to the Elasticsearch cluster                                                                                                               |
| `ELASTICSEARCH_PASSWORD`      | `default`                                                      | The password for the Elasticsearch user account                                                                                                                            |
| `ELASTICSEARCH_API_KEY`       | `ABCzYWk0NEI0aDRxxxxxxxxxx1k6LWVQa2gxMUpRTUstbjNwTFIzbGoyUQ==` | The Elasticsearch API key for authenticating to the Elasticsearch cluster                                                                                                  |
| `ELASTICSEARCH_CA_CERT_PATH`  | `/etc/connector/cacert.pem`                                    | The path to the Certificate Authority (CA) certificate for verifying the Elasticsearch server's SSL certificate                                                            |
| `ELASTICSEARCH_INDEX_PATTERN` | `hasura*`                                                      | The pattern for matching Elasticsearch indices, potentially including wildcards, used by the connector                                                                     |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="MongoDB" label="MongoDB">

| ENV            | Example                        | Description                                                                                             |
| -------------- | ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `MONGO_DB_URL` | `mongodb://host:27017/db_name` | The full connection string — **including the database name** — used to connect to the MongoDB instance. |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="MySQL" label="MySQL">

| ENV        | Example                                        | Description                         |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| `JDBC_URL` | `jdbc:mysql://user:password@host:3306/db_name` | This connector requires a JDBC URL. |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="PostgreSQL" label="PostgreSQL">

| ENV              | Example                                       | Description                                                            |
| ---------------- | --------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `CONNECTION_URI` | `postgresql://user:password@host:5432/dbname` | The full connection string used to connect to the PostgreSQL database. |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Qdrant" label="Qdrant">

| ENV              | Example                                       | Description                                                                                                                                          |
| ---------------- | --------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `QDRANT_URL`     | `https://<cluster-id>.<region>.<host>:<port>` | The connection string for the Qdrant database, including the port. You can generate this by selecting `Connect` under the Cluster in your dashboard. |
| `QDRANT_API_KEY` | `eyJ...`                                      | The Qdrant API key presented to you when the cluster was provisioned.                                                                                |

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Snowflake" label="Snowflake">

| ENV        | Example                                                                                                                                                                                       | Description                         |
| ---------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| `JDBC_URL` | `jdbc:snowflake://<account-identifier.<region>.snowflakecomputing.com?user=YOUR_USERNAME&&password=YOUR_PASSWORD&db=YOUR_DATABASE&warehouse=YOUR_WAREHOUSE&schema=YOUR_SCHEMA&role=YOUR_ROLE` | This connector requires a JDBC URL. |

:::info Optional parameters for Snowflake

Snowflake allows you to set a number of defaults. Your JDBC can minimal (i.e., only including the account identifier,
username, and password) or more granular depending on your settings within Snowflake.

:::

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Storage" label="Storage">

| ENV                 | Example                                    | Description                                              |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| `ACCESS_KEY_ID`     | `AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE`                     | Your AWS access key ID used to authenticate with S3.     |
| `SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` | `wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY` | Your AWS secret access key used to authenticate with S3. |
| `STORAGE_ENDPOINT`  | `https://s3.amazonaws.com`                 | The S3 service endpoint URL.                             |
| `DEFAULT_BUCKET`    | `my-app-bucket`                            | The default S3 bucket name where files will be stored.   |

:::info These environment variables are AWS-specific

Upon initialization, the connector will prompt you for the environment variables listed above. However, you can
configure this connector to work with any S3-compatible cloud provider. Check the configuration docs for more
information.

:::

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Stripe" label="Stripe">

| ENV                        | Example                               | Description                                                                                                                         |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `STRIPE_BEARER_AUTH_TOKEN` | `sk_<test\|prod>_<unique_identifier>` | A **secret** key for your account, retrievable from your [API Keys dashboard in Stripe](https://dashboard.stripe.com/test/apikeys). |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Trino" label="Trino">

| ENV        | Example                                                          | Description                         |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| `JDBC_URL` | `jdbc:trino://<host>:<port>/<database>/<schema>?user=<username>` | This connector requires a JDBC URL. |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Turso" label="Turso">

| ENV                | Example                             | Description                                                                                                                                        |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `TURSO_URL`        | `libsql://dbname-username.turso.io` | The connection string for the Turso database, using `libsql` protocol. You can generate this from the database's overview in your Turso dashboard. |
| `TURSO_AUTH_TOKEN` | `eyJ...`                            | A Turso auth token with access to the same database; this is also available via the Turso dashboard.                                               |

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

If your data source requires a connection string or endpoint, the CLI will confirm that it successfully tested the
connection to your source. Additionally, it generates configuration files, which you can find in the `connector`
directory of the subgraph where you added the connector (default: `app`). Finally, the CLI will create a
[DataConnectorLink](/reference/metadata-reference/data-connector-links.mdx) in your connector's `metadata` directory.

## Next steps

Now that you've initialized a connector and connected it to your data, you're ready to introspect the source and
populate the configuration files with source-specific information that Hasura will need to build your API. Check out the
[introspection page](/data-sources/introspect-a-source.mdx) to learn more.

Commit message:

Docs: Write MVP for GraphQL connector docs (#968)
Co-authored-by: Sean Park-Ross <94021366+seanparkross@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/data-sources/connect-to-a-source.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: Connect to a Source
description: "Learn how to connect any data source to Hasrua DDN."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - data sources
  - connect
  - data connector
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

# Connect to a source

## Introduction

This guide explains how to initialize a connector, configure its environment variables, and link it to your data source.
Once initialized, you'll be ready to introspect the source and integrate it into your API.

You'll need a [project](/reference/cli/commands/ddn_supergraph_init.mdx) before initializing a connector.

## Step 1. Initialize a connector

Regardless which connector you're using, you'll always begin by initializing it with a unique name:

```sh title="Initialize a new connector in a project directory:"
ddn connector init <your_name_for_the_connector> -i
```

A wizard will appear with a dropdown list. If you know the name of the connector, start typing the name. Otherwise, use
the arrows to scroll through the list. Hit `ENTER` when you've selected your desired connector; you'll then be prompted
to enter some values.

:::info Customization

You can customize which subgraph this connector is added to by
[changing your project's context](/reference/cli/commands/ddn_context.mdx) or using flags. More information can be found
in the [CLI docs](/reference/cli/commands/ddn_connector_init.mdx) for the `ddn connector init` command.

:::

## Step 2. Add environment variables

The CLI will assign a random port for the connector to use during local development. You can hit `ENTER` to accept the
suggested value or enter your own. Then, depending on your connector, there may be a set of environment variables that
it requires:

<Tabs groupId="source-preference" className="api-tabs">

<TabItem value="ClickHouse" label="ClickHouse">

| ENV                 | Example             | Description                                               |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| `CONNECTION_STRING` | `https://host:8123` | The HTTP(S) connection string to the ClickHouse instance. |
| `USERNAME`          | `default`           | The database username.                                    |
| `PASSWORD`          | `default`           | The database password.                                    |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="DuckDB" label="DuckDB">

| ENV          | Example             | Description                                                                              |
| ------------ | ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `DUCKDB_URL` | `/path/to/*.duckdb` | The path to the DuckDB database file which will be mounted to the connector's container. |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Elasticsearch" label="Elasticsearch">

| ENV                           | Example                                                        | Description                                                                                                                                                                |
| ----------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `ELASTICSEARCH_URL`           | `https://example.es.gcp.cloud.es.io:9200`                      | The comma-separated list of Elasticsearch host addresses for connection (Use `local.hasura.dev` instead of `localhost` if your connector is running on your local machine) |
| `ELASTICSEARCH_USERNAME`      | `default`                                                      | The username for authenticating to the Elasticsearch cluster                                                                                                               |
| `ELASTICSEARCH_PASSWORD`      | `default`                                                      | The password for the Elasticsearch user account                                                                                                                            |
| `ELASTICSEARCH_API_KEY`       | `ABCzYWk0NEI0aDRxxxxxxxxxx1k6LWVQa2gxMUpRTUstbjNwTFIzbGoyUQ==` | The Elasticsearch API key for authenticating to the Elasticsearch cluster                                                                                                  |
| `ELASTICSEARCH_CA_CERT_PATH`  | `/etc/connector/cacert.pem`                                    | The path to the Certificate Authority (CA) certificate for verifying the Elasticsearch server's SSL certificate                                                            |
| `ELASTICSEARCH_INDEX_PATTERN` | `hasura*`                                                      | The pattern for matching Elasticsearch indices, potentially including wildcards, used by the connector                                                                     |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="GraphQL" label="GraphQL">

| ENV                | Example                                     | Description                                |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| `GRAPHQL_ENDPOINT` | `https://spacex-production.up.railway.app/` | The GraphQL endpoint for the existing API. |

:::info The GraphQL connector is highly configurable

When you first initialize the connector, the CLI will only ask for the API's endpoint. You can further configure the
connector — such as choosing different configurations for introspection vs. execution — using the connector's
configuration file.

Learn more [here](/reference/connectors/graphql/configuration.mdx).

:::

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="MongoDB" label="MongoDB">

| ENV            | Example                        | Description                                                                                             |
| -------------- | ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `MONGO_DB_URL` | `mongodb://host:27017/db_name` | The full connection string — **including the database name** — used to connect to the MongoDB instance. |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="MySQL" label="MySQL">

| ENV        | Example                                        | Description                         |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| `JDBC_URL` | `jdbc:mysql://user:password@host:3306/db_name` | This connector requires a JDBC URL. |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="PostgreSQL" label="PostgreSQL">

| ENV              | Example                                       | Description                                                            |
| ---------------- | --------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `CONNECTION_URI` | `postgresql://user:password@host:5432/dbname` | The full connection string used to connect to the PostgreSQL database. |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Qdrant" label="Qdrant">

| ENV              | Example                                       | Description                                                                                                                                          |
| ---------------- | --------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `QDRANT_URL`     | `https://<cluster-id>.<region>.<host>:<port>` | The connection string for the Qdrant database, including the port. You can generate this by selecting `Connect` under the Cluster in your dashboard. |
| `QDRANT_API_KEY` | `eyJ...`                                      | The Qdrant API key presented to you when the cluster was provisioned.                                                                                |

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Snowflake" label="Snowflake">

| ENV        | Example                                                                                                                                                                                       | Description                         |
| ---------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| `JDBC_URL` | `jdbc:snowflake://<account-identifier.<region>.snowflakecomputing.com?user=YOUR_USERNAME&&password=YOUR_PASSWORD&db=YOUR_DATABASE&warehouse=YOUR_WAREHOUSE&schema=YOUR_SCHEMA&role=YOUR_ROLE` | This connector requires a JDBC URL. |

:::info Optional parameters for Snowflake

Snowflake allows you to set a number of defaults. Your JDBC can minimal (i.e., only including the account identifier,
username, and password) or more granular depending on your settings within Snowflake.

:::

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Storage" label="Storage">

| ENV                 | Example                                    | Description                                              |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| `ACCESS_KEY_ID`     | `AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE`                     | Your AWS access key ID used to authenticate with S3.     |
| `SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` | `wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY` | Your AWS secret access key used to authenticate with S3. |
| `STORAGE_ENDPOINT`  | `https://s3.amazonaws.com`                 | The S3 service endpoint URL.                             |
| `DEFAULT_BUCKET`    | `my-app-bucket`                            | The default S3 bucket name where files will be stored.   |

:::info These environment variables are AWS-specific

Upon initialization, the connector will prompt you for the environment variables listed above. However, you can
configure this connector to work with any S3-compatible cloud provider. Check the configuration docs for more
information.

:::

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Stripe" label="Stripe">

| ENV                        | Example                               | Description                                                                                                                         |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `STRIPE_BEARER_AUTH_TOKEN` | `sk_<test\|prod>_<unique_identifier>` | A **secret** key for your account, retrievable from your [API Keys dashboard in Stripe](https://dashboard.stripe.com/test/apikeys). |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Trino" label="Trino">

| ENV        | Example                                                          | Description                         |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| `JDBC_URL` | `jdbc:trino://<host>:<port>/<database>/<schema>?user=<username>` | This connector requires a JDBC URL. |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Turso" label="Turso">

| ENV                | Example                             | Description                                                                                                                                        |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `TURSO_URL`        | `libsql://dbname-username.turso.io` | The connection string for the Turso database, using `libsql` protocol. You can generate this from the database's overview in your Turso dashboard. |
| `TURSO_AUTH_TOKEN` | `eyJ...`                            | A Turso auth token with access to the same database; this is also available via the Turso dashboard.                                               |

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

If your data source requires a connection string or endpoint, the CLI will confirm that it successfully tested the
connection to your source. Additionally, it generates configuration files, which you can find in the `connector`
directory of the subgraph where you added the connector (default: `app`). Finally, the CLI will create a
[DataConnectorLink](/reference/metadata-reference/data-connector-links.mdx) in your connector's `metadata` directory.

## Next steps

Now that you've initialized a connector and connected it to your data, you're ready to introspect the source and
populate the configuration files with source-specific information that Hasura will need to build your API. Check out the
[introspection page](/data-sources/introspect-a-source.mdx) to learn more.
