docs/data-sources/introspect-a-source.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: Introspect a Source
description: "Learn how to introspect a data source and generate configuration files for your data connector."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - data sources
  - introspect
  - configuration
  - data connector
---

# Introspect a source

## Introduction

This guide explains how to use a connector to introspect a data source. After introspection, you'll be ready to begin
generating Hasura metadata that represents resources (such as tables or collections) in your data source.

You'll need an [initialized data connector](/data-sources/connect-to-a-source.mdx) before attempting to introspect a
source.

## Step 1. Run the introspect command

```sh title="All connectors use the same command to introspect a data source:"
ddn connector introspect <name_of_connector>
```

The connector will reach out to your data source and update the configuration files with information about your source schema.
This will vary depending on the connector but, at a minimum, you'll see source-specific information updated in two
files, both located in your connector's directory:

| File                      | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| ------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `configuration.json`      | An [Open Data Domain Specification](https://github.com/hasura/open-data-domain-specification) description of your data source. The CLI uses this file to update the DataConnectorLink object with information about your data source. |
| `<name_of_connector>.hml` | Contains the [DataConnectorLink](/supergraph-modeling/data-connector-links.mdx) for your connector.                                                                                                                                   |

:::info When to use this command

This command will be used at least once with every connector; Hasura **must** introspect your data source in order to
understand the resources that are present.

**Additionally, any time you modify your source schema, you should re-run this command to ensure your Hasura metadata is
up-to-date with your source schema.**

:::

## Next steps

With your source introspected and the configuration files populated, you can now start creating Hasura metadata that
will represent your source's schema in your API. Check out the [Data Modeling](/data-modeling/overview.mdx) section to begin creating models, commands,
and relationships for your data.

Commit message:

Add note for docker daemon

docs/data-sources/introspect-a-source.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: Introspect a Source
description: "Learn how to introspect a data source and generate configuration files for your data connector."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - data sources
  - introspect
  - configuration
  - data connector
---

# Introspect a source

## Introduction

This guide explains how to use a connector to introspect a data source. After introspection, you'll be ready to begin
generating Hasura metadata that represents resources (such as tables or collections) in your data source.

You'll need an [initialized data connector](/data-sources/connect-to-a-source.mdx) before attempting to introspect a
source.

## Step 1. Run the introspect command

```sh title="All connectors use the same command to introspect a data source:"
ddn connector introspect <name_of_connector>
```

:::tip Is your Docker daemon running?

When you run the introspection command, the connector will start. As it runs as a Docker service, the Docker daemon must
be running.

:::

The connector will reach out to your data source and update the configuration files with information about your source
schema. This will vary depending on the connector but, at a minimum, you'll see source-specific information updated in
two files, both located in your connector's directory:

| File                      | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| ------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `configuration.json`      | An [Open Data Domain Specification](https://github.com/hasura/open-data-domain-specification) description of your data source. The CLI uses this file to update the DataConnectorLink object with information about your data source. |
| `<name_of_connector>.hml` | Contains the [DataConnectorLink](/supergraph-modeling/data-connector-links.mdx) for your connector.                                                                                                                                   |

:::info When to use this command

This command will be used at least once with every connector; Hasura **must** introspect your data source in order to
understand the resources that are present.

**Additionally, any time you modify your source schema, you should re-run this command to ensure your Hasura metadata is
up-to-date with your source schema.**

:::

## Next steps

With your source introspected and the configuration files populated, you can now start creating Hasura metadata that
will represent your source's schema in your API. Check out the [Data Modeling](/data-modeling/overview.mdx) section to
begin creating models, commands, and relationships for your data.
