docs/data-sources/overview.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Basics
description: "TODO..."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - data sources
---

import Gallery from "@site/src/components/ConnectorGallery";

# Basics

## What is a data source?

When we talk about data, many people first think of structured tables in a database. While that’s a significant part of
the picture, data comes in many forms—some structured, others not. A data source, in the context of Hasura DDN, can be
as straightforward as a relational database or as dynamic as the output of a custom function.

With Hasura DDN, you can connect it all and serve it from a single endpoint.

## How do I connect my data to Hasura DDN?

We use **native data connectors** to make your data accessible through a GraphQL API. These connectors are tailored for
specific sources, including relational databases, NoSQL, external GraphQL APIs, REST APIs, and more.

We have the following data connectors available today:

<Gallery />

## Get started

- Learn how to [connect your data](/data-sources/connect-to-a-source.mdx)

Commit message:

Docs: Update frontmatter
Updates frontmatter across all pages touched in the PR.

Some pages had existing frontmatter that could be brought over. Some needed it hand-authored.

docs/data-sources/overview.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Basics
description:
  "Hasura DDN offers a variety of native data connectors that allow you to bring nearly any form of data into a single
  API."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - data sources
  - data connector
---

import Gallery from "@site/src/components/ConnectorGallery";

# Basics

## What is a data source?

When we talk about data, many people first think of structured tables in a database. While that’s a significant part of
the picture, data comes in many forms—some structured, others not. A data source, in the context of Hasura DDN, can be
as straightforward as a relational database or as dynamic as the output of a custom function.

With Hasura DDN, you can connect it all and serve it from a single endpoint.

## How do I connect my data to Hasura DDN?

We use **native data connectors** to make your data accessible through a GraphQL API. These connectors are tailored for
specific sources, including relational databases, NoSQL, external GraphQL APIs, REST APIs, and more.

We have the following data connectors available today:

<Gallery />

## Get started

- Learn how to [connect your data](/data-sources/connect-to-a-source.mdx)
