docs/data-sources/publish-your-own-connector.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 5
sidebar_label: Publish a Data Connector
description:
  "Learn how to publish your own data connector to the Hasura Connector Hub, empowering the entire community to use it!"
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - data sources
  - connector
  - publish
---

# Publish a Data Connector

## Introduction

This guide is for **connector authors** and details the automated process for publishing new connectors and updating
existing versions on the [Hasura Connector Hub](https://hasura.io/connectors), which is powered by
[the `ndc-hub` repository](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-hub).

The automated publication process simplifies and accelerates the deployment of NDC connectors by:

- Managing documentation updates
- Streamlining the approval workflow
- Uploading connector packages to Hasura DDN
- Updating the Hasura Hub Registry database so connectors can be deployed on DDN
- Making a new connector/connector version available in the DDN ecosystem

:::info How do I build a connector?

You can learn more about building a connector by reading about our SDKs:

- [Rust](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-sdk-rs)
- [TypeScript](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-sdk-typescript)
- [Python](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-sdk-python)
- [Go](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-sdk-go)

:::

## Publish a new connector

### Step 1. Clone the repository

```sh title="Clone the ndc-hub repository:"
git clone https://github.com/hasura/ndc-hub.git
```

### Step 2. Create a new directory for your connector in the registry {#step-2}

Create a new folder structure in [the `registry` directory](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-hub/tree/main/registry) of the
`ndc-hub` repo:

```plaintext
registry/
  └── [namespace]/
      └── [connector-name]/
```

Replace `[namespace]` with your organization's namespace and `[connector-name]` with the name of your connector.

### Step 3. Create a `connector-packaging.json` {#step-3}

Within your newly created connector's directory in the registry, create a new `releases` directory with a folder for
your first release and a `connector-packaging.json` for it:

```plaintext {4-6}
registry/
  └── [namespace]/
      └── [connector-name]/
          └── releases/
              └── v1.0.0/
                  └── connector-packaging.json
```

#### Format

Below is the required shape for the `connector-packaging.json` file for each connector version:

```json
{
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "uri": "https://github.com/hasura/ndc-mongodb/releases/download/v0.0.1/connector-definition.tgz",
  "checksum": {
    "type": "sha256",
    "value": "2cd3584557be7e2870f3488a30cac6219924b3f7accd9f5f473285323843a0f4"
  },
  "source": {
    "hash": "c32adbde478147518f65ff465c40a0703239288a"
  }
}
```

#### Required fields:

- **version**: The version of the connector (e.g., "1.0.0").
- **uri**: The URL to download the connector package. This should be a tarball containing the connector package
  definition and must be accessible without authentication.
- **checksum**: The checksum of the connector package.
  - **type**: The algorithm used for the checksum (currently only "sha256" is supported).
  - **value**: The actual checksum value.
- **source**: Information about the source code used to build the package.
  - **hash**: The commit hash of the source code used to build the connector package.

Ensure all fields are correctly filled out for each new connector version you publish.

### Step 4. Add the other required files

Add the following files to your connector's directory in the registry; details are below.

```plaintext {5-7}
registry/
  └── [namespace]/
      └── [connector-name]/
          ├─ releases/
          ├─ logo.(png|svg)
          ├─ metadata.json
          └─ README.md
```

- `logo.png` or `logo.svg`: The logo for your connector (preferably in SVG format).
- `README.md`: Documentation for your connector, including description, usage instructions, and any other relevant
  information.
- `metadata.json`: Metadata file containing information about the connector.

The `metadata.json` file in your connector's folder contains crucial information about your connector:

```json
{
  "overview": {
    "namespace": "your_namespace",
    "description": "A brief description of your connector",
    "title": "Your Connector Title",
    "logo": "logo.png",
    "tags": [],
    "latest_version": "v1.0.0"
  },
  "author": {
    "support_email": "support@example.com",
    "homepage": "https://www.example.com",
    "name": "Your Organization Name"
  },
  "is_verified": false,
  "is_hosted_by_hasura": false,
  "source_code": {
    "is_open_source": true,
    "repository": "https://github.com/your-org/your-connector-repo"
  }
}
```

**Field explanations:**

- **overview**: General information about your connector.

  - **namespace**: Your organization's namespace (e.g., `sqlserver` for the SQL Server connector).
  - **description**: A brief description of your connector.
  - **title**: The title of your connector (e.g., BigQuery, SQL Server).
  - **logo**: Filename containing your connector logo (acceptable formats: PNG, SVG).
  - **tags**: Keywords related to your connector.
  - **latest_version**: The most recent version of your connector.

- **author**: Information about the connector's author or organization.
- **is_verified**: Set this to `false` as only connectors developed by Hasura can be tagged as verified.
- **is_hosted_by_hasura**: Set this to `false` as connectors not developed by Hasura cannot be hosted by Hasura.

### Step 5. Submit for review

1. Commit all your changes to a new branch.
2. Create a pull request targeting the `main` branch of the `ndc-hub` repository.
3. In the pull request description provide any additional context about your new connector.
4. Wait for review and approval from the Hasura team.

#### Post-approval process

Once your pull request is approved and merged:

- The new connector will be added to the Hasura Hub Registry.
- It will become available in the staging environment for testing.
- After successful testing, it will be published to the production environment.

## Create a new release for existing connectors

### Step 1. Check repository structure

Ensure your connector and connector versions follow this directory structure in the `ndc-hub` repository:

```
registry/
  ├── [namespace]/
  │   ├── [connector-name]/
  │   │   ├── releases/
  │   │   │   ├── [version]/
  │   │   │   │   └── connector-packaging.json
  │   │   ├── logo.(png|svg)
  │   │   └── README.md
```

### Step 2. Create a new connector version

1. Create a new folder under `registry/[namespace]/[connector-name]/releases/` with the version number.
2. The version must start with the letter 'v', for example: `v1.0.0`.
3. Add a new `connector-packaging.json` file in this folder with the connector metadata.

### Step 3. Update connector information

- To update the logo: Modify the `logo.png` or `logo.svg` file in the connector's root folder.
- To update the documentation: Modify the `README.md` file in the connector's root folder.

### Step 4. Create a PR

1. Commit your changes to a new branch.
2. Create a pull request targeting the `main` branch of the `ndc-hub` repository.
3. Wait for approval from a Hasura team member.

#### Post-approval process

Once the pull request is approved, the GitHub workflow will automatically:

- Run the registry automation program.
- Upload connector packages.
- Update the Hasura Hub Registry database.

## Development workflow

The connector publication automation is designed to run automatically for every commit made to a pull request targeting
the `main` branch. This process ensures that your changes are continuously validated and updated in our staging
environment. Here's how it works:

### PR creation

When you create a pull request against the `main` branch with changes in the registry folder, it triggers the automation
process.

### Commit-based triggers

Every new commit to the pull request will trigger
[the `registry-updates` GitHub Actions workflow](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-hub/blob/main/.github/workflows/registry-updates.yaml).
This includes:

- Initial commits when opening the PR.
- Additional commits pushed to the same PR.
- Commits made in response to review comments.

### Staging environment updates

For each commit:

- The `registry-updates` workflow runs automatically.
- It validates the changes in the registry folder, including the `connector-packaging.json` file.
- If validation is successful, it updates the connector information on the `staging` Hasura DDN environment.
- Each new commit overwrites the previous version of that connector on the `staging` environment.

### Continuous updates

This process allows for continuous iteration and testing in the staging environment:

- You can push multiple commits to refine your connector changes.
- Each commit provides a new opportunity to test and verify your changes in the staging environment.
- Reviewers can check the latest version of your connector in the staging DDN at any time during the review process.

### Production deployment

Once the pull request is approved and merged into the `main` branch:

- The final version of the connector (based on the last commit in the PR) is automatically published to the `production`
  Hasura DDN.
- This process ensures that only thoroughly reviewed and tested connector versions reach the `production` environment.

### Important Notes

- The automation only triggers for changes made in the `registry` folder.
- Ensure your `connector-packaging.json` file is valid for each commit to avoid automation failures.
- Multiple connector versions or updates to multiple connectors can be included in a single PR, and the automation will
  handle all changes appropriately.

## Troubleshooting

### Pull request automation doesn't trigger.

Ensure the PR targets the main branch and modifies files under the `registry/` directory.

### Automation fails due to missing environment variables.

Ping `@scriptnull` or `@codingkarthik` in the PR.

Commit message:

Adds information about building own connector DOC-2451 (#922)

docs/data-sources/publish-your-own-connector.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 5
sidebar_label: Publish a Data Connector
description:
  "Learn how to publish your own data connector to the Hasura Connector Hub, empowering the entire community to use it!"
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - data sources
  - connector
  - publish
---

# Publish a Data Connector

## Introduction

This guide is for **connector authors** and details the automated process for publishing new connectors and updating
existing versions on the [Hasura Connector Hub](https://hasura.io/connectors), which is powered by
[the `ndc-hub` repository](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-hub).

The automated publication process simplifies and accelerates the deployment of NDC connectors by:

- Managing documentation updates
- Streamlining the approval workflow
- Uploading connector packages to Hasura DDN
- Updating the Hasura Hub Registry database so connectors can be deployed on DDN
- Making a new connector/connector version available in the DDN ecosystem

:::info How do I build a connector?

You can find information about building a connector in the [NDC Spec](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-spec) and the
rendered [NDC Spec data connector tutorial](https://hasura.github.io/ndc-spec/tutorial/index.html) as well as the SDKs
for various languages:

- [Rust](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-sdk-rs)
- [TypeScript](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-sdk-typescript)
- [Python](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-sdk-python)
- [Go](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-sdk-go)

:::

## Publish a new connector

### Step 1. Clone the repository

```sh title="Clone the ndc-hub repository:"
git clone https://github.com/hasura/ndc-hub.git
```

### Step 2. Create a new directory for your connector in the registry {#step-2}

Create a new folder structure in [the `registry` directory](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-hub/tree/main/registry) of the
`ndc-hub` repo:

```plaintext
registry/
  └── [namespace]/
      └── [connector-name]/
```

Replace `[namespace]` with your organization's namespace and `[connector-name]` with the name of your connector.

### Step 3. Create a `connector-packaging.json` {#step-3}

Within your newly created connector's directory in the registry, create a new `releases` directory with a folder for
your first release and a `connector-packaging.json` for it:

```plaintext {4-6}
registry/
  └── [namespace]/
      └── [connector-name]/
          └── releases/
              └── v1.0.0/
                  └── connector-packaging.json
```

#### Format

Below is the required shape for the `connector-packaging.json` file for each connector version:

```json
{
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "uri": "https://github.com/hasura/ndc-mongodb/releases/download/v0.0.1/connector-definition.tgz",
  "checksum": {
    "type": "sha256",
    "value": "2cd3584557be7e2870f3488a30cac6219924b3f7accd9f5f473285323843a0f4"
  },
  "source": {
    "hash": "c32adbde478147518f65ff465c40a0703239288a"
  }
}
```

#### Required fields:

- **version**: The version of the connector (e.g., "1.0.0").
- **uri**: The URL to download the connector package. This should be a tarball containing the connector package
  definition and must be accessible without authentication.
- **checksum**: The checksum of the connector package.
  - **type**: The algorithm used for the checksum (currently only "sha256" is supported).
  - **value**: The actual checksum value.
- **source**: Information about the source code used to build the package.
  - **hash**: The commit hash of the source code used to build the connector package.

Ensure all fields are correctly filled out for each new connector version you publish.

### Step 4. Add the other required files

Add the following files to your connector's directory in the registry; details are below.

```plaintext {5-7}
registry/
  └── [namespace]/
      └── [connector-name]/
          ├─ releases/
          ├─ logo.(png|svg)
          ├─ metadata.json
          └─ README.md
```

- `logo.png` or `logo.svg`: The logo for your connector (preferably in SVG format).
- `README.md`: Documentation for your connector, including description, usage instructions, and any other relevant
  information.
- `metadata.json`: Metadata file containing information about the connector.

The `metadata.json` file in your connector's folder contains crucial information about your connector:

```json
{
  "overview": {
    "namespace": "your_namespace",
    "description": "A brief description of your connector",
    "title": "Your Connector Title",
    "logo": "logo.png",
    "tags": [],
    "latest_version": "v1.0.0"
  },
  "author": {
    "support_email": "support@example.com",
    "homepage": "https://www.example.com",
    "name": "Your Organization Name"
  },
  "is_verified": false,
  "is_hosted_by_hasura": false,
  "source_code": {
    "is_open_source": true,
    "repository": "https://github.com/your-org/your-connector-repo"
  }
}
```

**Field explanations:**

- **overview**: General information about your connector.

  - **namespace**: Your organization's namespace (e.g., `sqlserver` for the SQL Server connector).
  - **description**: A brief description of your connector.
  - **title**: The title of your connector (e.g., BigQuery, SQL Server).
  - **logo**: Filename containing your connector logo (acceptable formats: PNG, SVG).
  - **tags**: Keywords related to your connector.
  - **latest_version**: The most recent version of your connector.

- **author**: Information about the connector's author or organization.
- **is_verified**: Set this to `false` as only connectors developed by Hasura can be tagged as verified.
- **is_hosted_by_hasura**: Set this to `false` as connectors not developed by Hasura cannot be hosted by Hasura.

### Step 5. Submit for review

1. Commit all your changes to a new branch.
2. Create a pull request targeting the `main` branch of the `ndc-hub` repository.
3. In the pull request description provide any additional context about your new connector.
4. Wait for review and approval from the Hasura team.

#### Post-approval process

Once your pull request is approved and merged:

- The new connector will be added to the Hasura Hub Registry.
- It will become available in the staging environment for testing.
- After successful testing, it will be published to the production environment.

## Create a new release for existing connectors

### Step 1. Check repository structure

Ensure your connector and connector versions follow this directory structure in the `ndc-hub` repository:

```
registry/
  ├── [namespace]/
  │   ├── [connector-name]/
  │   │   ├── releases/
  │   │   │   ├── [version]/
  │   │   │   │   └── connector-packaging.json
  │   │   ├── logo.(png|svg)
  │   │   └── README.md
```

### Step 2. Create a new connector version

1. Create a new folder under `registry/[namespace]/[connector-name]/releases/` with the version number.
2. The version must start with the letter 'v', for example: `v1.0.0`.
3. Add a new `connector-packaging.json` file in this folder with the connector metadata.

### Step 3. Update connector information

- To update the logo: Modify the `logo.png` or `logo.svg` file in the connector's root folder.
- To update the documentation: Modify the `README.md` file in the connector's root folder.

### Step 4. Create a PR

1. Commit your changes to a new branch.
2. Create a pull request targeting the `main` branch of the `ndc-hub` repository.
3. Wait for approval from a Hasura team member.

#### Post-approval process

Once the pull request is approved, the GitHub workflow will automatically:

- Run the registry automation program.
- Upload connector packages.
- Update the Hasura Hub Registry database.

## Development workflow

The connector publication automation is designed to run automatically for every commit made to a pull request targeting
the `main` branch. This process ensures that your changes are continuously validated and updated in our staging
environment. Here's how it works:

### PR creation

When you create a pull request against the `main` branch with changes in the registry folder, it triggers the automation
process.

### Commit-based triggers

Every new commit to the pull request will trigger
[the `registry-updates` GitHub Actions workflow](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-hub/blob/main/.github/workflows/registry-updates.yaml).
This includes:

- Initial commits when opening the PR.
- Additional commits pushed to the same PR.
- Commits made in response to review comments.

### Staging environment updates

For each commit:

- The `registry-updates` workflow runs automatically.
- It validates the changes in the registry folder, including the `connector-packaging.json` file.
- If validation is successful, it updates the connector information on the `staging` Hasura DDN environment.
- Each new commit overwrites the previous version of that connector on the `staging` environment.

### Continuous updates

This process allows for continuous iteration and testing in the staging environment:

- You can push multiple commits to refine your connector changes.
- Each commit provides a new opportunity to test and verify your changes in the staging environment.
- Reviewers can check the latest version of your connector in the staging DDN at any time during the review process.

### Production deployment

Once the pull request is approved and merged into the `main` branch:

- The final version of the connector (based on the last commit in the PR) is automatically published to the `production`
  Hasura DDN.
- This process ensures that only thoroughly reviewed and tested connector versions reach the `production` environment.

### Important Notes

- The automation only triggers for changes made in the `registry` folder.
- Ensure your `connector-packaging.json` file is valid for each commit to avoid automation failures.
- Multiple connector versions or updates to multiple connectors can be included in a single PR, and the automation will
  handle all changes appropriately.

## Troubleshooting

### Pull request automation doesn't trigger.

Ensure the PR targets the main branch and modifies files under the `registry/` directory.

### Automation fails due to missing environment variables.

Ping `@scriptnull` or `@codingkarthik` in the PR.
