docs/data-sources/troubleshooting.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_label: Troubleshooting
description: "Learn how to troubleshoot common issues when connecting to data sources with Hasura DDN."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - data sources
  - data connectors
  - troubleshoot
  - help
---

# Troubleshooting

## Common issues

### My connector can't connect to the data source

When initializing a new connector, we verify the connection string you provide to ensure your data source is reachable.
If this process fails, try the following solutions:

#### Your source isn't accessible to the public internet

If your data source is hosted behind a firewall or restricts access to specific IP addresses, it may block external
connections. Unless you're using [Private DDN](https://hasura.io/pricing), you need to allow access from all IP
addresses. You can do this by adding the following to your allowlist:

```plaintext
0.0.0.0/0
```

#### Docker networking issues

Hasura DDN resolves `local.hasura.dev` to your machine's `localhost`. This avoids Docker networking conflicts, where
`localhost` might point to your source's container instead of your local machine. To fix this, update any `localhost`
references in your connection strings to `local.hasura.dev`.

### My connector won't introspect my data source

If you encounter an error like the following:

```plaintext
ERR Failed building the container: exit status 17
```

You'll likely see the following in the logs:

```plaintext
Failed to resolve source metadata for ghcr.io/hasura/<connector>: failed to authorize: failed to fetch oauth token: unexpected status from GET request to https://ghcr.io/token?scope=repository%3Ahasura%2F<connector>%3Apull&service=ghcr.io: 403 Forbidden
```

When this happens, your GitHub access token located in your Docker credentials store is likely out-of-date.

To resolve this, generate a new PAT with `package` scope and run the following:

```sh
echo "<GH_PAT>" | docker login ghcr.io -u <YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME> --password-stdin
```

Your terminal should return `Login Succeeded`.

### There's a port conflict for my connector

Use `docker ps` to check for any running processes that would conflict with your source's container. If you find one,
kill it and then try initializing the connector again.

### My connector isn't reflecting schema changes in my data source

You may have not re-run the introspection steps. Remember, each time your data source's schema changes, you'll need to
re-run this command to make Hasura DDN aware of the new schema. Follow the guide
[here](/data-sources/introspect-a-source.mdx).

### My connector isn't reflecting schema changes in my API

If you've modified your metadata and are getting errors when trying to use your API, you may need to force a rebuild of
the connector.

Identify the connector's container and image; kill the container and delete the image. Then, re-run the
`ddn run docker-start` command to rebuild the connector's image in addition to your other services.

### My data source operations time out

If a data source operation like `ddn introspect` hangs, eventually times out, and you encounter a log entry like the
following:

```plaintext
INF Waiting for the Connector service to be healthy...
```

Follow these steps to resolve the issue:

#### Step 1: Enable Debug Logging

Add the `--log-level DEBUG` flag to your command to generate more detailed logs. If the debug logs include the following
entry:

```plaintext
dial tcp: lookup local.hasura.dev: no such host
```

Then the issue is related to DNS resolution.

#### Step 2: Diagnose the DNS Issue

The most common cause of this DNS error is that your DHCP server is setting the Domain Search option. This is specified
in [DHCP Option 119/RFC 3397](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3397).

#### Step 3: Resolve the DNS Issue

To resolve this issue, you have two options:

- **Disable the Domain Search Option**

  Disabling this option in your DHCP server settings will prevent the DNS error. Consult your network administrator if
  you are unsure how to make this change.

- **Add a Static Hostname Entry**

  If disabling the Domain Search option is not feasible, you can manually add a static entry to your hosts file. This
  approach will override DNS lookup for the hostname `local.hasura.dev`.

  **Windows:** Follow the instructions [here](https://www.howtogeek.com/27350/beginner-geek-how-to-edit-your-hosts-file/) to edit your hosts file.

  **Linux/Unix/MacOS:** Add the following line to your `/etc/hosts` file:

  ```plaintext
  127.0.0.1 local.hasura.dev
  ```

  This entry maps the hostname `local.hasura.dev` to the IP address `127.0.0.1` and does not interfere with other
  applications.

By following these steps, you should be able to resolve the introspection hang or timeout issue with your data source.

## Get help

### Discord

We're available on Discord! Check out
[the `#v3-help-forum`](https://discord.com/channels/407792526867693568/1205357708677480468) to post your question and
get help from the community and Hasura team members!

### GitHub

Each connector has a public repository on GitHub. Typically, they'll follow the naming convention of
`hasura/ndc-<connector-name>`. Create issues on these repositories to get help directly from the teams responsible for
the connectors.

You can search the list of public repositories [here](https://github.com/orgs/hasura/repositories).

Commit message:

Docs: Add troubleshooting step for large builds (#931)

docs/data-sources/troubleshooting.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_label: Troubleshooting
description: "Learn how to troubleshoot common issues when connecting to data sources with Hasura DDN."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - data sources
  - data connectors
  - troubleshoot
  - help
---

# Troubleshooting

## Common issues

### My connector can't connect to the data source

When initializing a new connector, we verify the connection string you provide to ensure your data source is reachable.
If this process fails, try the following solutions:

#### Your source isn't accessible to the public internet

If your data source is hosted behind a firewall or restricts access to specific IP addresses, it may block external
connections. Unless you're using [Private DDN](https://hasura.io/pricing), you need to allow access from all IP
addresses. You can do this by adding the following to your allowlist:

```plaintext
0.0.0.0/0
```

#### Docker networking issues

Hasura DDN resolves `local.hasura.dev` to your machine's `localhost`. This avoids Docker networking conflicts, where
`localhost` might point to your source's container instead of your local machine. To fix this, update any `localhost`
references in your connection strings to `local.hasura.dev`.

### My connector won't introspect my data source

If you encounter an error like the following:

```plaintext
ERR Failed building the container: exit status 17
```

You'll likely see the following in the logs:

```plaintext
Failed to resolve source metadata for ghcr.io/hasura/<connector>: failed to authorize: failed to fetch oauth token: unexpected status from GET request to https://ghcr.io/token?scope=repository%3Ahasura%2F<connector>%3Apull&service=ghcr.io: 403 Forbidden
```

When this happens, your GitHub access token located in your Docker credentials store is likely out-of-date.

To resolve this, generate a new PAT with `package` scope and run the following:

```sh
echo "<GH_PAT>" | docker login ghcr.io -u <YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME> --password-stdin
```

Your terminal should return `Login Succeeded`.

### There's a port conflict for my connector

Use `docker ps` to check for any running processes that would conflict with your source's container. If you find one,
kill it and then try initializing the connector again.

### My connector isn't reflecting schema changes in my data source

You may have not re-run the introspection steps. Remember, each time your data source's schema changes, you'll need to
re-run this command to make Hasura DDN aware of the new schema. Follow the guide
[here](/data-sources/introspect-a-source.mdx).

### My connector isn't reflecting schema changes in my API

If you've modified your metadata and are getting errors when trying to use your API, you may need to force a rebuild of
the connector.

Identify the connector's container and image; kill the container and delete the image. Then, re-run the
`ddn run docker-start` command to rebuild the connector's image in addition to your other services.

### My data source operations time out

If a data source operation like `ddn introspect` hangs, eventually times out, and you encounter a log entry like the
following:

```plaintext
INF Waiting for the Connector service to be healthy...
```

Follow these steps to resolve the issue:

#### Step 1: Enable Debug Logging

Add the `--log-level DEBUG` flag to your command to generate more detailed logs. If the debug logs include the following
entry:

```plaintext
dial tcp: lookup local.hasura.dev: no such host
```

Then the issue is related to DNS resolution.

#### Step 2: Diagnose the DNS Issue

The most common cause of this DNS error is that your DHCP server is setting the Domain Search option. This is specified
in [DHCP Option 119/RFC 3397](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3397).

#### Step 3: Resolve the DNS Issue

To resolve this issue, you have two options:

- **Disable the Domain Search Option**

  Disabling this option in your DHCP server settings will prevent the DNS error. Consult your network administrator if
  you are unsure how to make this change.

- **Add a Static Hostname Entry**

  If disabling the Domain Search option is not feasible, you can manually add a static entry to your hosts file. This
  approach will override DNS lookup for the hostname `local.hasura.dev`.

  **Windows:** Follow the instructions
  [here](https://www.howtogeek.com/27350/beginner-geek-how-to-edit-your-hosts-file/) to edit your hosts file.

  **Linux/Unix/MacOS:** Add the following line to your `/etc/hosts` file:

  ```plaintext
  127.0.0.1 local.hasura.dev
  ```

  This entry maps the hostname `local.hasura.dev` to the IP address `127.0.0.1` and does not interfere with other
  applications.

By following these steps, you should be able to resolve the introspection hang or timeout issue with your data source.

### I have a lot of tables

Typically, you won't experience any issues when connecting to or introspecting a database with a large number of tables.
However, _builds_ of your supergraph may exceed timeouts given the size of your project.

```sh title="If possible, consider removing unused models via the CLI:"
ddn model remove <table>
```

```sh title="Then, retry your supergraph build:"
ddn supergraph build <local|create>
```

:::info I need all of my tables

If all tracked tables are needed, and you're running into build issues,
[raise a ticket or drop us a line on Discord](/help/overview.mdx).

:::

## Get help

### Discord

We're available on Discord! Check out
[the `#v3-help-forum`](https://discord.com/channels/407792526867693568/1205357708677480468) to post your question and
get help from the community and Hasura team members!

### GitHub

Each connector has a public repository on GitHub. Typically, they'll follow the naming convention of
`hasura/ndc-<connector-name>`. Create issues on these repositories to get help directly from the teams responsible for
the connectors.

You can search the list of public repositories [here](https://github.com/orgs/hasura/repositories).
