docs/project-configuration/tutorials/manage-multiple-environments.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: Manage mulitple environments
description: ""
keywords:
  - hasura
  - hasura ddn
---

# Manage Multiple Environments

## Introduction

Managing multiple contexts in Hasura DDN allows you to replicate the functionality of traditional environments like
`staging` and `production`, but with greater flexibility. Instead of rigidly defined environments, Hasura DDN uses
contexts to store key details such as project configurations, metadata, and environment variables. This approach lets
you switch between different setups without disrupting your workflow or end users.

In this tutorial, you'll learn how to:

- Set up multiple contexts to test and collaborate on your project
- Use the CLI to manage your project's contexts
- Build and deploy projects with shared metadata across different contexts

This tutorial should take less than ten minutes.

## Step 1. Initialize a new local project

```sh title="Create a new local project:"
ddn supergraph init environments-example && cd environments-example
```

This will scaffold out the necessary files for a Hasura DDN project in a new `environments-example` directory.

## Step 2. Create a new project context and switch to it

```sh title="From the project directory, run:"
ddn context create-context staging
```

Verify this by opening the `.hasura/context.yaml` file. You'll see a `contexts` array with two entries: `default` and
your newly-created `staging`.

:::tip What can be stored in context?

Contexts store a series of key-value pairs that make it easy to switch between different setups. Valid keys are:

- `project` — identifying the cloud project's name to be used for commands which require a `--project` flag.
- `supergraph` — identifying the `supergraph.yaml` configuration file to be used for commands which require a
  `--supergraph` flag.
- `subgraph` — identifying the current subgraph to be used for commands which require a `--subgraph` flag.
- `localEnvFile` — identifying the file of local environment variables to be used during development.
- `cloudEnvFile` — identifying the file of cloud environment variables to be used during cloud builds.
- `selfHostedDataPlane` — the ID of the self-hosted data plane if you're using a Private DDN.

:::

## Step 3. Update the context values

```sh title="First, set the supergraph configuration:"
ddn context set supergraph "supergraph.yaml"
```

```sh title="Then, which subgraphs to include:"
ddn context set subgraph "app/subgraph.yaml"
```

```sh title="Finally, stub out a local .env.staging file and add it to your staging context:"
touch .env.staging && ddn context set localEnvFile ".env.staging"
```

You'll see each of these key-value pairs added to your `staging` context.

:::tip Customize these values

The examples provided here are starting points and can be adapted to suit your project's requirements. Ideally, the
values included in your `.env.staging` file will reference resources such as testing database instances. Keep the keys
consistent with those in your production `.env` files, but assign different values tailored for staging or testing
environments.

:::

## Step 4. Create a new staging cloud project

```sh title="Using your new context, create a cloud project:"
ddn project init --env-file-name ".env.staging.cloud"
```

The CLI will add the project's name and your `cloudEnvFile` to your `staging` context.

## Step 5. Create a new build on your staging project

```sh
ddn supergraph build create
```

The CLI will output information about the build, including a console URL which you can open in your browser. While there
will be no root fields available via the API, you can find information about the included subgraphs in the `Explorer`
section. Your local metadata was used to create this API build on your `staging` project.

## Step 6. Create a new production cloud project

```sh title="First, switch contexts:"
ddn context set-current-context default
```

```sh title="Then, create a new project:"
ddn project init
```

In your `context.yaml`, you'll now see a `project` and `cloudEnvFile` value for your `default` context. We're
considering this our `production` instance.

## Step 7. Create a new build on your production project

```sh title="Since our current context is default, we can now use the same metadata to create a productioun build:"
ddn supergraph build create
```

Just as with our `staging` project, you can navigate to the console URL output by the CLI and explore your `production`
build.

## Next steps

Now that you know how contexts can help you manage environments, see how easy it is to
[set up CI/CD](/deployment/ddn/deploy-your-supergraph#cicd) using the CLI and contexts.

Commit message:

Docs: Stub out remaining pages
Stubs out remaining pages by scaffolding out the how-to structure for the remainig subdirectories.

Notably, engine-plugins is dumped; it now definitely doesn't belong here. I'm also going to go back through
the tutorials and make them more detailed so there's enough differentiation between these and the how-to
pages (e.g., I'll add data connectors + seed data to the tuts so users have something they can tangibly see).

Add details

Adds details for making tutorials more prescriptive with greater clarity on what's happening.

docs/project-configuration/tutorials/manage-multiple-environments.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: Manage mulitple environments
description: ""
keywords:
  - hasura
  - hasura ddn
---

# Manage Multiple Environments

## Introduction

Managing multiple contexts in Hasura DDN allows you to replicate the functionality of traditional environments like
`staging` and `production`, but with greater flexibility. Instead of rigidly defined environments, Hasura DDN uses
contexts to store key details such as project configurations, metadata, and environment variables. This approach lets
you switch between different setups without disrupting your workflow or end users.

In this tutorial, you'll learn how to:

- Set up multiple contexts to test and collaborate on your project
- Use the CLI to manage your project's contexts
- Build and deploy projects with shared metadata across different contexts

This tutorial should take less than ten minutes.

## Step 1. Initialize a new local project

```sh title="Create a new local project:"
ddn supergraph init environments-example && cd environments-example
```

This will scaffold out the necessary files for a Hasura DDN project in a new `environments-example` directory.

## TODO: Add a data source, some seed data, and generate the metadata

## Create a new local build and test the API

## Step 2. Create a new project context and switch to it

```sh title="From the project directory, run:"
ddn context create-context staging
```

Verify this by opening the `.hasura/context.yaml` file. You'll see a `contexts` array with two entries: `default` and
your newly-created `staging`.

:::tip What can be stored in context?

Contexts store a series of key-value pairs that make it easy to switch between different setups. Valid keys are:

- `project` — identifying the cloud project's name to be used for commands which require a `--project` flag.
- `supergraph` — identifying the `supergraph.yaml` configuration file to be used for commands which require a
  `--supergraph` flag.
- `subgraph` — identifying the current subgraph to be used for commands which require a `--subgraph` flag.
- `localEnvFile` — identifying the file of local environment variables to be used during development.
- `cloudEnvFile` — identifying the file of cloud environment variables to be used during cloud builds.
- `selfHostedDataPlane` — the ID of the self-hosted data plane if you're using a Private DDN.

:::

## Step 3. Update the context values

```sh title="First, set the supergraph configuration:"
ddn context set supergraph "supergraph.yaml"
```

```sh title="Then, which subgraphs to include:"
ddn context set subgraph "app/subgraph.yaml"
```

```sh title="Finally, stub out a local .env.staging file and add it to your staging context:"
touch .env.staging && ddn context set localEnvFile ".env.staging"
```

You'll see each of these key-value pairs added to your `staging` context.

:::tip Customize these values

The examples provided here are starting points and can be adapted to suit your project's requirements. Ideally, the
values included in your `.env.staging` file will reference resources such as testing database instances. Keep the keys
consistent with those in your production `.env` files, but assign different values tailored for staging or testing
environments.

:::

## Step 4. Create a new staging cloud project

```sh title="Using your new context, create a cloud project:"
ddn project init --env-file-name ".env.staging.cloud"
```

The CLI will add the project's name and your `cloudEnvFile` to your `staging` context.

## Step 5. Create a new build on your staging project

```sh
ddn supergraph build create
```

The CLI will output information about the build, including a console URL which you can open in your browser. While there
will be no root fields available via the API, you can find information about the included subgraphs in the `Explorer`
section. Your local metadata was used to create this API build on your `staging` project.

## Step 6. Create a new production cloud project

```sh title="First, switch contexts:"
ddn context set-current-context default
```

```sh title="Then, create a new project:"
ddn project init
```

In your `context.yaml`, you'll now see a `project` and `cloudEnvFile` value for your `default` context. We're
considering this our `production` instance.

## Step 7. Create a new build on your production project

```sh title="Since our current context is default, we can now use the same metadata to create a productioun build:"
ddn supergraph build create
```

Just as with our `staging` project, you can navigate to the console URL output by the CLI and explore your `production`
build.

## Next steps

Now that you know how contexts can help you manage environments, see how easy it is to
[set up CI/CD](/deployment/ddn/deploy-your-supergraph#cicd) using the CLI and contexts.
