docs/project-configuration/tutorials/work-with-multiple-repositories.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_label: Work with multiple repositories
description: ""
keywords:
  - hasura
  - hasura ddn
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

# Work with Multiple Repositories

## Introduction

Managing multiple repositories in Hasura DDN lets you streamline development across independent subgraphs while
maintaining a unified supergraph. This approach provides flexibility for teams to work autonomously on their respective
domains, all within a single coordinated API. By organizing your project into multiple repositories, you can iterate and
deploy changes seamlessly without impacting other subgraphs, ensuring a smooth and collaborative development experience.

You'll learn:

- How to organize your project into subgraphs
- How to provision a "parent" repo
- How to set up your cloud project for multi-subgraph development
- How to create independent subgraph repositories
- How to create, test, and deploy your supergraph as subgraphs develop independently
- How to create relationships across independent subgraphs

This tutorial takes about thirty minutes.

:::warning DDN Advanced Plan required

In order to utilize multi-repository collaboration, you must have an active
[DDN Advanced Plan](https://hasura.io/pricing).

:::

## Create the initial project

Begin by creating a "parent project" that will serve as the coordinated supergraph for your independent subgraph
repositories. The person creating this will assume the role of **supergraph admin** and have full control over
provisioning subgraphs, inviting collaborators, and managing the API as a whole.

### Step 1. Initialize a new local project

```sh title="Create a new local project and initialize a git repository:"
ddn supergraph init parent-project && cd parent-project && git init
```

This will scaffold out the local configuration for a DDN project and initialize a git repository.

### Step 2. Create a cloud project

```sh title="From the local project directory, create a new cloud project:"
ddn project init
```

In `.hasura/context.yaml`, you'll see a new `project` key-value pair with the name of the project returned from the CLI.

### Step 3. Create a commit

```sh title="Create an initial commit with your local project mapped to the cloud project via context:"
git add . && git commit -m "Initial commit"
```

### Step 4. Provision subgraphs

We'll add two subgraphs to this supergraph: `customers` and `billing`

```sh title="Create the subgraphs on the cloud project:"
ddn project subgraph create customers && ddn project subgraph create billing
```

### Step 5. Create a supergraph build

```sh title="Create an initial supergraph build:"
ddn supergraph build create
```

This will serve as the foundation for your first **subgraph** build to expand upon.

### Step 6. Invite collaborators

Head to the project's console at [console.hasura.io](https://console.hasura.io) and navigate to
`Setetings/Collaborators`. Then, invite collaborators based on their role:

| Role               | Description                                                                                                    |
| ------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Subgraph Admin     | Users with permissions to create builds and deploy them to the parent project's endpoint.                      |
| Subgraph Developer | Developers responsible for implementing features and making iterative changes to the subgraph's functionality. |

:::info Learn more about collaborators

Learn more about collaborators and roles [here](/collaboration/invite.mdx).

:::

Each collaborator will receive an email inviting them to your project.

## Add independent subgraphs to the project

Each subgraph will live in its own repository. While this can be an existing repository, we're going to demonstrate
initializing a new repository below.

### Customers

#### Step 1. Create a new repo for the `customers` subgraph

```sh title="Initialize a new local project and git repo:"
ddn supergraph init customer-team --create-subgraph customers && cd customer-team && git init
```

This will scaffold out the necessary project structure along with initializing a git repository for version control.

#### Step 2. Map the local project to the existing cloud project

```sh title="Use the --with-project flag to map the local directory to the parent cloud project, replacing the name with your parent project's name:"
ddn project init --with-project <project-name>
```

You'll see the `project` key-value pair updated in your `.hasura/context.yaml` file.

#### Step 3. Set the subgraph context

```sh title="Change the context to your subgraph's configuration file:"
ddn context set subgraph ./customers/subgraph.yaml
```

This will set your unique subgraph in your `.hasura/context.yaml` file and make the CLI commands below more concise.

#### Step 4. Add prefixing

```sh title="Next, open the customers/subgraph.yaml file and add the following:"
kind: Subgraph
version: v2
definition:
  name: customers
  generator:
    rootPath: .
    namingConvention: graphql
    #highlight-start
    graphqlRootFieldPrefix: customers_
    graphqlTypeNamePrefix: customers_
    #highlight-end
  includePaths:
    - metadata
```

These will prevent collisions of GraphQL root fields and GraphQL types when your supergraph is built.

#### Step 5. Add a data source and generate your first local build

In this tutorial, we'll use the PostgreSQL connector and our sample PostgreSQL database:

```plaintext
postgresql://read_only_user:readonlyuser@35.236.11.122:5432/v3-docs-sample-app
```

```sh title="In your project directory, run the following, choose hasura/postrges, and pass the connection URI above when prompted:"
ddn connector init customers_pg -i
```

##### Generate the Hasura metadata

```sh title="Next, use the CLI to introspect the PostgreSQL database:"
ddn connector introspect customers_pg
```

After running this, you should see a representation of your database's schema in the
`customers/connector/customers_pg/configuration.json` file; you can view this using `cat` or open the file in your
editor.

```sh title="Now, track the table from your PostgreSQL database as a model in your DDN metadata:"
ddn models add customers_pg users
```

Open the `customers/metadata` directory and you'll find a newly-generated file: `Users.hml`. The DDN CLI will use this
Hasura Metadata Language file to represent the `users` table from PostgreSQL in your API as a
[model](/supergraph-modeling/models.mdx).

##### Create a new local build and test the API

```sh title="To create a local build, run:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

The build is stored as a set of JSON files in `engine/build`.

```sh title="Start your local Hasura DDN Engine and PostgreSQL connector:"
ddn run docker-start
```

Your terminal will be taken over by logs for the different services.

```sh title="In a new terminal tab, open your local console:"
ddn console --local
```

```graphql title="In the GraphiQL explorer of the console, write this query:"
query GET_USERS {
  customers_users {
    id
    name
  }
}
```

```json title="You'll get the following response:"
{
  "data": {
    "customers_users": [
      {
        "id": "7cf0a66c-65b7-11ed-b904-fb49f034fbbb",
        "name": "Sean"
      },
      {
        "id": "82001336-65b7-11ed-b905-7fa26a16d198",
        "name": "Rob"
      },
      {
        "id": "86d5fba0-65b7-11ed-b906-afb985970e2e",
        "name": "Marion"
      },
      {
        "id": "8dea1160-65b7-11ed-b907-e3c5123cb650",
        "name": "Sandeep"
      },
      {
        "id": "9bd9d300-65b7-11ed-b908-571fef22d2ba",
        "name": "Abby"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

#### Step 6. Create a subgraph build

Now that we've tested our local API and are happy with its state, we can create a build of our independent subgraph on
our cloud project.

```sh title="Create a subgraph build on your DDN project:"
ddn subgraph build create
```

The CLI will return the subgraph's build version; you'll need this value in the next step.

#### Step 7. Create a supergraph build

```sh title="Begin by listing the available supergrpah builds:"
ddn supergraph build get
```

Grab the most recent build's version and use it — along with the subgraph build version — in the following command.

```sh title="Finally, create a supergraph build incorporating your latest subgraph build:"
ddn supergraph build create --subgraph-version customers:<build-version> --base-supergraph-version <supergraph-build-id>
```

The CLI will return a build URL for the console so you can explore your build and test your subgraph changes with others
before applying the build to the supergraph. In order to apply the build, you must be a **subgraph admin** or higher:

```sh
ddn supergraph build apply <supergraph-build-version>
```

:::warning Take care to stop all running services

As a multi-repository setup is intended be utilized by multiple persons across teams, you're not likely to have multiple
instance of your Hasura DDN Engine and other services running at the same time on your machine. Ensure you've killed all
active services before proceeding to the next step for the `billing` subgraph.

:::

### Billing

The steps below will allow you to incorporate your independent `billing` subgraph into your deployed supergraph API.

#### Step 1. Create a new repo for the `billing` subgraph

```sh title="Initialize a new local project and git repo:"
ddn supergraph init billing-team --create-subgraph billing && cd billing-team && git init
```

This will scaffold out the necessary project structure along with initializing a git repository for version control.

#### Step 2. Map the local project to the existing cloud project

```sh title="Use the --with-project flag to map the local directory to the parent cloud project, replacing the name with your parent project's name:"
ddn project init --with-project <project-name>
```

You'll see the `project` key-value pair updated in your `.hasura/context.yaml` file.

#### Step 3. Set the subgraph context

```sh title="Change the context to your subgraph's configuration file:"
ddn context set subgraph ./billing/subgraph.yaml
```

This will set your unique subgraph in your `.hasura/context.yaml` file and make the CLI commands below more concise.

#### Step 4. Add prefixing

```sh title="Next, open the billing/subgraph.yaml file and add the following:"
kind: Subgraph
version: v2
definition:
  name: billing
  generator:
    rootPath: .
    namingConvention: graphql
    #highlight-start
    graphqlRootFieldPrefix: billing_
    graphqlTypeNamePrefix: billing_
    #highlight-end
  includePaths:
    - metadata
```

Like before, this will ensure the types an fields are namespaced to your subgraph.

#### Step 5. Add a data source and generate your first local build

As before, we'll use the PostgreSQL connector with our sample database:

```plaintext
postgresql://read_only_user:readonlyuser@35.236.11.122:5432/v3-docs-sample-app
```

```sh title="In your project directory, run:"
ddn connector init billing_pg -i
```

##### Generate the Hasura metadata

```sh title="Next, use the CLI to introspect the PostgreSQL database:"
ddn connector introspect billing_pg
```

After running this, you should see a representation of your database's schema in the
`billing/connector/billing_pg/configuration.json` file; you can view this using `cat` or open the file in your editor.

```sh title="Now, track the table from the PostgreSQL database as a model in your DDN metadata:"
ddn models add billing_pg orders
```

Open the `billing/metadata` directory and you'll find a newly-generated file: `Orders.hml`. The DDN CLI will use this
Hasura Metadata Language file to represent the `orders` table from PostgreSQL in your API as a
[model](/supergraph-modeling/models.mdx).

##### Create a new local build and test the API

```sh title="To create a local build, run:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

The build is stored as a set of JSON files in `engine/build`.

```sh title="Start your local Hasura DDN Engine and PostgreSQL connector:"
ddn run docker-start
```

Your terminal will be taken over by logs for the different services.

```sh title="In a new terminal tab, open your local console:"
ddn console --local
```

```graphql title="In the GraphiQL explorer of the console, write this query:"
query GET_ORDERS {
  billing_orders {
    id
    createdAt
    status
  }
}
```

```json title="You'll get the following response:"
{
  "data": {
    "billing_orders": [
      {
        "id": "c7406b75-6b24-41e4-9c5b-ff3feada9447",
        "createdAt": "2023-10-29T17:02:50.889261+00:00",
        "status": "processing"
      },
      {
        "id": "7ff13435-b590-4d6b-957f-f7fd39d4528a",
        "createdAt": "2023-10-29T17:02:50.958076+00:00",
        "status": "complete"
      },
      {
        "id": "98612470-1feb-4b91-88f7-9289d652ee87",
        "createdAt": "2023-10-29T17:02:51.021317+00:00",
        "status": "complete"
      },
      {
        "id": "85581445-752a-4aef-9684-b648eb5d5f42",
        "createdAt": "2023-10-29T17:02:51.085229+00:00",
        "status": "complete"
      },
      {
        "id": "9891596a-a732-4c1c-902c-1a112da48fec",
        "createdAt": "2023-10-29T17:02:51.150084+00:00",
        "status": "complete"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

#### Step 6. Create a subgraph build

```sh title="Once your local metadata is in its desired state, create a subgraph build on your DDN project:"
ddn subgraph build create
```

The CLI will return the subgraph's build version; you'll need this value in the next step.

#### Step 7. Create a supergraph build

```sh title="Begin by listing the available supergrpah builds:"
ddn supergraph build get
```

Grab the most-recent build's version and use it — along with the subgraph build version — in the following command.

```sh title="Finally, create a supergraph build incorporating your latest subgraph build:"
ddn supergraph build create --subgraph-version billing:<build-version> --base-supergraph-version <supergraph-build-id>
```

The CLI will return a build URL for the console so you can explore your build and test your subgraph changes with others
before applying the build to the supergraph. In order to apply the build, you must be a **subgraph admin** or higher:

```sh
ddn supergraph build apply <supergraph-build-version>
```

:::warning Take care to stop all running services

As a multi-repository setup is intended be utilized by multiple persons across teams, you're not likely to have multiple
instance of your Hasura DDN Engine and other services running at the same time on your machine. Ensure you've killed all
active services before proceeding to the next step.

:::

## Add a cross-subgraph relationship

```yaml title="Add the following relationship object to your Users.hml file in your customer-team repo:"
---
kind: Relationship
version: v1
definition:
  name: orders
  sourceType: Users
  target:
    model:
      subgraph: billing
      name: Orders
      relationshipType: Array
  mapping:
    - source:
        fieldPath:
          - fieldName: id
      target:
        modelField:
          - fieldName: userId
```

```sh title="Create a new subgraph build:"
ddn subgraph build create
```

```sh title="Get the list of supergraph builds:"
ddn supergraph build get
```

```sh title="Then, create a supergraph build incorporating your latest subgraph build:"
ddn supergraph build create --subgraph-version customers:<build-version> --base-supergraph-version <supergraph-build-id>
```

```graphql title="Now, you can test your nested query across subgraphs:"
query GET_USERS_AND_ORDERS {
  customers_users {
    id
    name
    orders {
      id
      createdAt
      status
    }
  }
}
```

```json title="With a repsonse like this:"
{
  "data": {
    "customers_users": [
      {
        "id": "7cf0a66c-65b7-11ed-b904-fb49f034fbbb",
        "name": "Sean",
        "orders": [
          {
            "id": "7ff13435-b590-4d6b-957f-f7fd39d4528a",
            "createdAt": "2023-10-29T17:02:50.958076+00:00",
            "status": "complete"
          }
        ]
      },
      {
        "id": "82001336-65b7-11ed-b905-7fa26a16d198",
        "name": "Rob",
        "orders": [
          {
            "id": "9891596a-a732-4c1c-902c-1a112da48fec",
            "createdAt": "2023-10-29T17:02:51.150084+00:00",
            "status": "complete"
          }
        ]
      },
      {
        "id": "86d5fba0-65b7-11ed-b906-afb985970e2e",
        "name": "Marion",
        "orders": [
          {
            "id": "85581445-752a-4aef-9684-b648eb5d5f42",
            "createdAt": "2023-10-29T17:02:51.085229+00:00",
            "status": "complete"
          }
        ]
      },
      {
        "id": "8dea1160-65b7-11ed-b907-e3c5123cb650",
        "name": "Sandeep",
        "orders": [
          {
            "id": "c7406b75-6b24-41e4-9c5b-ff3feada9447",
            "createdAt": "2023-10-29T17:02:50.889261+00:00",
            "status": "processing"
          }
        ]
      },
      {
        "id": "9bd9d300-65b7-11ed-b908-571fef22d2ba",
        "name": "Abby",
        "orders": [
          {
            "id": "98612470-1feb-4b91-88f7-9289d652ee87",
            "createdAt": "2023-10-29T17:02:51.021317+00:00",
            "status": "complete"
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Recap

By organizing your project into multiple repositories, you can create a flexible and collaborative workflow for subgraph
development in Hasura DDN. Starting with a parent project, you learned how to provision subgraphs, invite collaborators,
and manage builds to integrate subgraph changes into a unified supergraph. This structure ensures teams can work
independently while maintaining seamless integration and coordination across the entire API.

Commit message:

Docs: Final read-through
Final read through tweaking metadata, catching mistakes, and ensuring build works with ported
content from the collaboration/invite.mdx page.

docs/project-configuration/tutorials/work-with-multiple-repositories.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_label: Work with multiple repositories
description: "Learn how to split your Hasura DDN across multiple repositories."
keywords:
  - hasura
  - hasura ddn
  - multiple subgraphs
  - multiple repositories
  - multi-repo
  - tutorial
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

# Work with Multiple Repositories

## Introduction

Managing multiple repositories in Hasura DDN lets you streamline development across independent subgraphs while
maintaining a unified supergraph. This approach provides flexibility for teams to work autonomously on their respective
domains, all within a single coordinated API. By organizing your project into multiple repositories, you can iterate and
deploy changes efficiently without impacting other subgraphs, ensuring a smooth and collaborative development
experience.

You'll learn:

- How to organize your project into subgraphs
- How to provision a "parent" repo
- How to set up your cloud project for multi-subgraph development
- How to create independent subgraph repositories
- How to create, test, and deploy your supergraph as subgraphs develop independently
- How to create relationships across independent subgraphs

This tutorial takes about thirty minutes.

:::warning DDN Advanced Plan required

In order to utilize multi-repository collaboration, you must have an active
[DDN Advanced Plan](https://hasura.io/pricing).

:::

## Create the initial project

Begin by creating a "parent project" that will serve as the coordinated supergraph for your independent subgraph
repositories. The person creating this will assume the role of **supergraph admin** and have full control over
provisioning subgraphs, inviting collaborators, and managing the API as a whole.

### Step 1. Initialize a new local project

```sh title="Create a new local project and initialize a git repository:"
ddn supergraph init parent-project && cd parent-project && git init
```

This will scaffold out the local configuration for a DDN project and initialize a git repository.

### Step 2. Create a cloud project

```sh title="From the local project directory, create a new cloud project:"
ddn project init
```

In `.hasura/context.yaml`, you'll see a new `project` key-value pair with the name of the project returned from the CLI.

### Step 3. Create a commit

```sh title="Create an initial commit with your local project mapped to the cloud project via context:"
git add . && git commit -m "Initial commit"
```

### Step 4. Provision subgraphs

We'll add two subgraphs to this supergraph: `customers` and `billing`.

```sh title="Create the subgraphs on the cloud project:"
ddn project subgraph create customers && ddn project subgraph create billing
```

### Step 5. Create a supergraph build

```sh title="Create an initial supergraph build:"
ddn supergraph build create
```

This will serve as the foundation for your first **subgraph** build to expand upon.

### Step 6. Invite collaborators

Head to the project's console at [console.hasura.io](https://console.hasura.io) and navigate to
`Setetings/Collaborators`. Then, invite collaborators based on their role:

| Role               | Description                                                                                                    |
| ------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Subgraph Admin     | Users with permissions to create builds and deploy them to the parent project's endpoint.                      |
| Subgraph Developer | Developers responsible for implementing features and making iterative changes to the subgraph's functionality. |

:::info Learn more about collaborators

Learn more about collaborators and roles [here](/project-configuration/project-management/manage-collaborators.mdx).

:::

Each collaborator will receive an email inviting them to your project.

## Add independent subgraphs to the project

Each subgraph will live in its own repository. While this can be an existing repository, we're going to demonstrate
initializing a new repository below.

### Customers

#### Step 1. Create a new repo for the `customers` subgraph

```sh title="Initialize a new local project and git repo:"
ddn supergraph init customer-team --create-subgraph customers && cd customer-team && git init
```

This will scaffold out the necessary project structure along with initializing a git repository for version control.

#### Step 2. Map the local project to the existing cloud project

```sh title="Use the --with-project flag to map the local directory to the parent cloud project, replacing the name with your parent project's name:"
ddn project init --with-project <project-name>
```

You'll see the `project` key-value pair updated in your `.hasura/context.yaml` file.

#### Step 3. Set the subgraph context

```sh title="Change the context to your subgraph's configuration file:"
ddn context set subgraph ./customers/subgraph.yaml
```

This will set your unique subgraph in your `.hasura/context.yaml` file and make the CLI commands below more concise.

#### Step 4. Add prefixing

```sh title="Next, open the customers/subgraph.yaml file and add the following:"
kind: Subgraph
version: v2
definition:
  name: customers
  generator:
    rootPath: .
    namingConvention: graphql
    #highlight-start
    graphqlRootFieldPrefix: customers_
    graphqlTypeNamePrefix: customers_
    #highlight-end
  includePaths:
    - metadata
```

These will prevent collisions of GraphQL root fields and GraphQL types when your supergraph is built.

#### Step 5. Add a data source and generate your first local build

In this tutorial, we'll use the PostgreSQL connector and our sample PostgreSQL database:

```plaintext
postgresql://read_only_user:readonlyuser@35.236.11.122:5432/v3-docs-sample-app
```

```sh title="In your project directory, run the following, choose hasura/postrges, and pass the connection URI above when prompted:"
ddn connector init customers_pg -i
```

##### Generate the Hasura metadata

```sh title="Next, use the CLI to introspect the PostgreSQL database:"
ddn connector introspect customers_pg
```

After running this, you should see a representation of your database's schema in the
`customers/connector/customers_pg/configuration.json` file; you can view this using `cat` or open the file in your
editor.

```sh title="Now, track the table from your PostgreSQL database as a model in your DDN metadata:"
ddn models add customers_pg users
```

Open the `customers/metadata` directory and you'll find a newly-generated file: `Users.hml`. The DDN CLI will use this
Hasura Metadata Language file to represent the `users` table from PostgreSQL in your API as a
[model](/supergraph-modeling/models.mdx).

##### Create a new local build and test the API

```sh title="To create a local build, run:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

The build is stored as a set of JSON files in `engine/build`.

```sh title="Start your local Hasura DDN Engine and PostgreSQL connector:"
ddn run docker-start
```

Your terminal will be taken over by logs for the different services.

```sh title="In a new terminal tab, open your local console:"
ddn console --local
```

```graphql title="In the GraphiQL explorer of the console, write this query:"
query GET_USERS {
  customers_users {
    id
    name
  }
}
```

```json title="You'll get the following response:"
{
  "data": {
    "customers_users": [
      {
        "id": "7cf0a66c-65b7-11ed-b904-fb49f034fbbb",
        "name": "Sean"
      },
      {
        "id": "82001336-65b7-11ed-b905-7fa26a16d198",
        "name": "Rob"
      },
      {
        "id": "86d5fba0-65b7-11ed-b906-afb985970e2e",
        "name": "Marion"
      },
      {
        "id": "8dea1160-65b7-11ed-b907-e3c5123cb650",
        "name": "Sandeep"
      },
      {
        "id": "9bd9d300-65b7-11ed-b908-571fef22d2ba",
        "name": "Abby"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

#### Step 6. Create a subgraph build

Now that we've tested our local API and are happy with its state, we can create a build of our independent subgraph on
our cloud project.

```sh title="Create a subgraph build on your DDN project:"
ddn subgraph build create
```

The CLI will return the subgraph's build version; you'll need this value in the next step.

#### Step 7. Create a supergraph build

```sh title="Begin by listing the available supergrpah builds:"
ddn supergraph build get
```

Grab the most recent build's version and use it — along with the subgraph build version — in the following command.

```sh title="Finally, create a supergraph build incorporating your latest subgraph build:"
ddn supergraph build create --subgraph-version customers:<build-version> --base-supergraph-version <supergraph-build-id>
```

The CLI will return a build URL for the console so you can explore your build and test your subgraph changes with others
before applying the build to the supergraph. In order to apply the build, you must be a **subgraph admin** or higher:

```sh
ddn supergraph build apply <supergraph-build-version>
```

:::warning Take care to stop all running services

As a multi-repository setup is intended be utilized by multiple persons across teams, you're not likely to have multiple
instance of your Hasura DDN Engine and other services running at the same time on your machine. Ensure you've killed all
active services before proceeding to the next step for the `billing` subgraph.

:::

### Billing

The steps below will allow you to incorporate your independent `billing` subgraph into your deployed supergraph API.

#### Step 1. Create a new repo for the `billing` subgraph

```sh title="Initialize a new local project and git repo:"
ddn supergraph init billing-team --create-subgraph billing && cd billing-team && git init
```

This will scaffold out the necessary project structure along with initializing a git repository for version control.

#### Step 2. Map the local project to the existing cloud project

```sh title="Use the --with-project flag to map the local directory to the parent cloud project, replacing the name with your parent project's name:"
ddn project init --with-project <project-name>
```

You'll see the `project` key-value pair updated in your `.hasura/context.yaml` file.

#### Step 3. Set the subgraph context

```sh title="Change the context to your subgraph's configuration file:"
ddn context set subgraph ./billing/subgraph.yaml
```

This will set your unique subgraph in your `.hasura/context.yaml` file and make the CLI commands below more concise.

#### Step 4. Add prefixing

```sh title="Next, open the billing/subgraph.yaml file and add the following:"
kind: Subgraph
version: v2
definition:
  name: billing
  generator:
    rootPath: .
    namingConvention: graphql
    #highlight-start
    graphqlRootFieldPrefix: billing_
    graphqlTypeNamePrefix: billing_
    #highlight-end
  includePaths:
    - metadata
```

Like before, this will ensure the types an fields are namespaced to your subgraph.

#### Step 5. Add a data source and generate your first local build

As before, we'll use the PostgreSQL connector with our sample database:

```plaintext
postgresql://read_only_user:readonlyuser@35.236.11.122:5432/v3-docs-sample-app
```

```sh title="In your project directory, run:"
ddn connector init billing_pg -i
```

##### Generate the Hasura metadata

```sh title="Next, use the CLI to introspect the PostgreSQL database:"
ddn connector introspect billing_pg
```

After running this, you should see a representation of your database's schema in the
`billing/connector/billing_pg/configuration.json` file; you can view this using `cat` or open the file in your editor.

```sh title="Now, track the table from the PostgreSQL database as a model in your DDN metadata:"
ddn models add billing_pg orders
```

Open the `billing/metadata` directory and you'll find a newly-generated file: `Orders.hml`. The DDN CLI will use this
Hasura Metadata Language file to represent the `orders` table from PostgreSQL in your API as a
[model](/supergraph-modeling/models.mdx).

##### Create a new local build and test the API

```sh title="To create a local build, run:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

The build is stored as a set of JSON files in `engine/build`.

```sh title="Start your local Hasura DDN Engine and PostgreSQL connector:"
ddn run docker-start
```

Your terminal will be taken over by logs for the different services.

```sh title="In a new terminal tab, open your local console:"
ddn console --local
```

```graphql title="In the GraphiQL explorer of the console, write this query:"
query GET_ORDERS {
  billing_orders {
    id
    createdAt
    status
  }
}
```

```json title="You'll get the following response:"
{
  "data": {
    "billing_orders": [
      {
        "id": "c7406b75-6b24-41e4-9c5b-ff3feada9447",
        "createdAt": "2023-10-29T17:02:50.889261+00:00",
        "status": "processing"
      },
      {
        "id": "7ff13435-b590-4d6b-957f-f7fd39d4528a",
        "createdAt": "2023-10-29T17:02:50.958076+00:00",
        "status": "complete"
      },
      {
        "id": "98612470-1feb-4b91-88f7-9289d652ee87",
        "createdAt": "2023-10-29T17:02:51.021317+00:00",
        "status": "complete"
      },
      {
        "id": "85581445-752a-4aef-9684-b648eb5d5f42",
        "createdAt": "2023-10-29T17:02:51.085229+00:00",
        "status": "complete"
      },
      {
        "id": "9891596a-a732-4c1c-902c-1a112da48fec",
        "createdAt": "2023-10-29T17:02:51.150084+00:00",
        "status": "complete"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

#### Step 6. Create a subgraph build

```sh title="Once your local metadata is in its desired state, create a subgraph build on your DDN project:"
ddn subgraph build create
```

The CLI will return the subgraph's build version; you'll need this value in the next step.

#### Step 7. Create a supergraph build

```sh title="Begin by listing the available supergrpah builds:"
ddn supergraph build get
```

Grab the most-recent build's version and use it — along with the subgraph build version — in the following command.

```sh title="Finally, create a supergraph build incorporating your latest subgraph build:"
ddn supergraph build create --subgraph-version billing:<build-version> --base-supergraph-version <supergraph-build-id>
```

The CLI will return a build URL for the console so you can explore your build and test your subgraph changes with others
before applying the build to the supergraph. In order to apply the build, you must be a **subgraph admin** or higher:

```sh
ddn supergraph build apply <supergraph-build-version>
```

:::warning Take care to stop all running services

As a multi-repository setup is intended be utilized by multiple persons across teams, you're not likely to have multiple
instance of your Hasura DDN Engine and other services running at the same time on your machine. Ensure you've killed all
active services before proceeding to the next step.

:::

## Add a cross-subgraph relationship

**We can create relationships across subgraphs that are testable on a Hasura Cloud project**. As your locally-running
engine will only have access to your local subgraphs and their accompanying metadata, you'll need to define
relationships using your knowledge of other subgraphs and then test them using a supergraph build in your hosted
environment.

```yaml title="Add the following relationship object to your Users.hml file in your customer-team repo:"
---
kind: Relationship
version: v1
definition:
  name: orders
  sourceType: Users
  target:
    model:
      subgraph: billing
      name: Orders
      relationshipType: Array
  mapping:
    - source:
        fieldPath:
          - fieldName: id
      target:
        modelField:
          - fieldName: userId
```

```sh title="Create a new subgraph build:"
ddn subgraph build create
```

```sh title="Get the list of supergraph builds:"
ddn supergraph build get
```

```sh title="Then, create a supergraph build incorporating your latest subgraph build:"
ddn supergraph build create --subgraph-version customers:<build-version> --base-supergraph-version <supergraph-build-id>
```

```graphql title="Now, you can test your nested query across subgraphs:"
query GET_USERS_AND_ORDERS {
  customers_users {
    id
    name
    orders {
      id
      createdAt
      status
    }
  }
}
```

```json title="With a repsonse like this:"
{
  "data": {
    "customers_users": [
      {
        "id": "7cf0a66c-65b7-11ed-b904-fb49f034fbbb",
        "name": "Sean",
        "orders": [
          {
            "id": "7ff13435-b590-4d6b-957f-f7fd39d4528a",
            "createdAt": "2023-10-29T17:02:50.958076+00:00",
            "status": "complete"
          }
        ]
      },
      {
        "id": "82001336-65b7-11ed-b905-7fa26a16d198",
        "name": "Rob",
        "orders": [
          {
            "id": "9891596a-a732-4c1c-902c-1a112da48fec",
            "createdAt": "2023-10-29T17:02:51.150084+00:00",
            "status": "complete"
          }
        ]
      },
      {
        "id": "86d5fba0-65b7-11ed-b906-afb985970e2e",
        "name": "Marion",
        "orders": [
          {
            "id": "85581445-752a-4aef-9684-b648eb5d5f42",
            "createdAt": "2023-10-29T17:02:51.085229+00:00",
            "status": "complete"
          }
        ]
      },
      {
        "id": "8dea1160-65b7-11ed-b907-e3c5123cb650",
        "name": "Sandeep",
        "orders": [
          {
            "id": "c7406b75-6b24-41e4-9c5b-ff3feada9447",
            "createdAt": "2023-10-29T17:02:50.889261+00:00",
            "status": "processing"
          }
        ]
      },
      {
        "id": "9bd9d300-65b7-11ed-b908-571fef22d2ba",
        "name": "Abby",
        "orders": [
          {
            "id": "98612470-1feb-4b91-88f7-9289d652ee87",
            "createdAt": "2023-10-29T17:02:51.021317+00:00",
            "status": "complete"
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Recap

By organizing your project into multiple repositories, you can create a flexible and collaborative workflow for subgraph
development in Hasura DDN. Starting with a parent project, you learned how to provision subgraphs, invite collaborators,
and manage builds to integrate subgraph changes into a unified supergraph. This structure ensures teams can work
independently while maintaining seamless integration and coordination across the entire API.
