docs/data-modeling/overview.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Overview
description:
  "Data modeling with Hasura DDN is simultaneously simple and powerful. Learn how to model your data with Hasura DDN to
  get the best API performance on top of your data."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - data modeling
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import { OverviewTopSectionIconNoVideo } from "@site/src/components/OverviewTopSectionIconNoVideo";
import { OverviewPlainCard } from "@site/src/components/OverviewPlainCard";
import Icon from "@site/static/icons/features/data-modeling.svg";

# Data Modeling

## Introduction

Hasura DDN uses a code-first, semantic metadata layer to centralize your data definitions, relationships, and
permissions in one place. This setup makes it easy to organize and scale your data model, whether you're building a
simple app or a complex architecture. With Hasura, turning data into APIs is fast and straightforward.

## Find out more

- [Models read data](/data-modeling/model.mdx)
- [Commands modify data](/data-modeling/command.mdx)
- [Relationships connect data](/data-modeling/relationship.mdx)
- [Permissions protect data](/data-modeling/permissions.mdx)

Commit message:

Data Modeling / Schema Design (#798)
Co-authored-by: hasura-bot <accounts@hasura.io>

docs/data-modeling/overview.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Overview
description:
  "Data modeling with Hasura DDN is simultaneously simple and powerful. Learn how to model your data with Hasura DDN to
  get the best API performance on top of your data."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - data modeling
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import { OverviewTopSectionIconNoVideo } from "@site/src/components/OverviewTopSectionIconNoVideo";
import { OverviewPlainCard } from "@site/src/components/OverviewPlainCard";
import Icon from "@site/static/icons/features/data-modeling.svg";
import Thumbnail from "@site/src/components/Thumbnail";

# Data Modeling

## Introduction

Hasura DDN defines your API schema declaratively. An approach that centralizes all your data collections, operations,
relationships, and permissions in one place. This makes it easy to organize, modify, secure, reason about, and grow the
schema which represents your API.

## Lifecycle

Hasura DDN uses data connectors to connect to your data sources.

Data connectors introspect the source to understand the source schema.

The DDN CLI uses the introspection results to generate the API schema metadata objects. This can also be done manually.

The metadata is then "built" by the DDN CLI into a format which the Hasura GraphQL engine can use to serve your API.

<Thumbnail src="/img/data-modeling/ddn-cli-process.png" alt="Data modeling lifecycle" width="1000px" />

## Metadata Objects

There are [many types of metadata objects](/supergraph-modeling/overview.mdx) which define your API, but the most
important ones which form the backbone of your API are:

- [Models](/data-modeling/model.mdx) which read data
- [Commands](/data-modeling/command.mdx) which modify data
- [Relationships](/data-modeling/relationship.mdx) which connect data
- [Permissions](/data-modeling/permissions.mdx) which protect data

We will cover each of these in more detail in the following sections.
