docs/how-to-build-with-ddn/with-snowflake.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 6
sidebar_label: With Snowflake
description: "Learn the basics of Hasura DDN and how to get started with a Snowflake instance."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - graphql api
  - getting started
  - guide
  - snowflake
---

import Prereqs from "@site/docs/_prereqs.mdx";

# Get Started with Hasura DDN and Snowflake

## Overview

This tutorial takes about twenty minutes to complete. You'll learn how to:

- Set up a new Hasura DDN project
- Connect it to a Snowflake instance
- Generate Hasura metadata
- Create a build
- Run your first query

Additionally, we'll familiarize you with the steps and workflows necessary to iterate on your API.

This tutorial assumes you're starting from scratch, but you can easily follow the steps if you already have data seeded;
Hasura will never modify your source schema.

<Prereqs />

## Tutorial

### Step 1. Authenticate your CLI

```sh title="Before you can create a new Hasura DDN project, you need to authenticate your CLI:"
ddn auth login
```

This will launch a browser window prompting you to log in or sign up for Hasura DDN. After you log in, the CLI will
acknowledge your login, giving you access to Hasura Cloud resources.

### Step 2. Scaffold out a new local project

```sh title="Next, create a new local project:"
ddn supergraph init my-project && cd my-project
```

Once you move into this directory, you'll see your project scaffolded out for you. You can view the structure by either
running `ls` in your terminal, or by opening the directory in your preferred editor.

### Step 3. Initialize your Snowflake connector

```sh title="In your project directory, run:"
ddn connector init my_snowflake -i
```

```plaintext title="The CLI will ask you for a connection string in the JDBC URL format, e.g.:"
jdbc:snowflake://<account-identifier.<region>.snowflakecomputing.com?user=YOUR_USERNAME&&password=YOUR_PASSWORD&db=YOUR_DATABASE&warehouse=YOUR_WAREHOUSE&schema=YOUR_SCHEMA&role=YOUR_ROLE
```

:::info More information on JDBC URLs

To learn more about Snowflake's conventions for JDBC URLs, see their
[docs](https://docs.snowflake.com/developer-guide/jdbc/jdbc-configure#jdbc-driver-connection-string).

:::

### Step 4. Create and seed a new Snowflake database

In a warehouse, create a new database called `DOCS`. Then, on the `PUBLIC` schema for the `DOCS` database, create a new
table using the standard format via the Snowflake UI:

```sql
CREATE TABLE users (
  id INT AUTOINCREMENT START 1 INCREMENT 1 PRIMARY KEY,
  name STRING NOT NULL,
  age INT NOT NULL
);
```

Next, open a new worksheet on your database's `PUBLIC` schema and insert some seed data:

```sql
INSERT INTO users (name, age) VALUES ('Alice', 25);
INSERT INTO users (name, age) VALUES ('Bob', 30);
INSERT INTO users (name, age) VALUES ('Charlie', 35);
```

You can verify this worked by using Adminer to query all records from the `users` table:

```sql
SELECT * FROM users;
```

### Step 6. Introspect your Snowflake database

```sh title="Next, use the CLI to introspect your Snowflake database:"
ddn connector introspect my_snowflake
```

After running this, you should see a representation of your database's schema in the
`app/connector/my_snowflake/configuration.json` file; you can view this using `cat` or open the file in your editor.

```sh title="Additionally, you can check which resources are available — and their status — at any point using the CLI:"
ddn connector show-resources my_snowflake
```

### Step 7. Add your model

```sh title="Now, track the table from your Snowflake database as a model in your DDN metadata:"
ddn model add my_snowflake DOCS.PUBLIC.USERS
```

Open the `app/metadata` directory and you'll find a newly-generated file: `DocsPublicUsers.hml`. The DDN CLI will use
this Hasura Metadata Language file to represent the `users` table from Snowflake in your API as a
[model](/reference/metadata-reference/models.mdx).

### Step 8. Create a new build

```sh title="To create a local build, run:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

The build is stored as a set of JSON files in `engine/build`.

### Step 9. Start your local services

```sh title="Start your local Hasura DDN Engine and Snowflake connector:"
ddn run docker-start
```

Your terminal will be taken over by logs for the different services.

### Step 10. Run your first query

```sh title="In a new terminal tab, open your local console:"
ddn console --local
```

```graphql title="In the GraphiQL explorer of the console, write this query:"
query {
  docsPublicUsers {
    id
    name
    age
  }
}
```

```json title="You'll get the following response:"
{
  "data": {
    "docsPublicUsers": [
      {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "Alice",
        "age": 25
      },
      {
        "id": 2,
        "name": "Bob",
        "age": 30
      },
      {
        "id": 3,
        "name": "Charlie",
        "age": 35
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Step 11. Iterate on your Snowflake schema

```sql title="Add a new table for posts:"
CREATE TABLE posts (
  id INT AUTOINCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
  user_id INT NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE,
  title TEXT NOT NULL,
  content TEXT NOT NULL,
  created_at TIMESTAMP_NTZ DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP()
);

INSERT INTO posts (user_id, title, content) VALUES
  (1, 'My First Post', 'This is Alice''s first post.'),
  (1, 'Another Post', 'Alice writes again!'),
  (2, 'Bob''s Post', 'Bob shares his thoughts.'),
  (3, 'Hello World', 'Charlie joins the conversation.');
```

```sql title="Using the worksheet, query the joined data:"
SELECT
  posts.id AS post_id,
  posts.title,
  posts.content,
  posts.created_at,
  users.name AS author
FROM
  posts
JOIN
  users ON posts.user_id = users.id;
```

You should see a list of posts returned with the author's information joined from the `users` table

### Step 12. Refresh your metadata and rebuild your project

:::tip

The following steps are necessary each time you make changes to your **source** schema. This includes, adding,
modifying, or dropping tables.

:::

#### Step 12.1. Re-introspect your data source

```sh title="Run the introspection command again:"
ddn connector introspect my_snowflake
```

In `app/connector/my_snowflake/configuration.json`, you'll see schema updated to include operations for the `posts`
table. In `app/metadata/my_snowflake.hml`, you'll see `DOCS.PUBLIC.POSTS` present in the metadata as well.

#### Step 12.2. Update your metadata

```sh title="Add the posts model:"
ddn model add my_snowflake "DOCS.PUBLIC.POSTS"
```

#### Step 12.3. Create a new build

```sh title="Next, create a new build:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

#### Step 12.4. Restart your services

```sh title="Bring down the servies by pressing CTRL+C and start them back up:"
ddn run docker-start
```

### Step 13. Query your new build

```graphql title="Head back to your console and query the posts model:"
query GetPosts {
  docsPublicPosts {
    id
    title
    content
  }
}
```

```json title="You'll get a response like this:"
{
  "data": {
    "docsPublicPosts": [
      {
        "id": 1,
        "title": "My First Post",
        "content": "This is Alice's first post."
      },
      {
        "id": 2,
        "title": "Another Post",
        "content": "Alice writes again!"
      },
      {
        "id": 3,
        "title": "Bob's Post",
        "content": "Bob shares his thoughts."
      },
      {
        "id": 4,
        "title": "Hello World",
        "content": "Charlie joins the conversation."
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Next steps

Congratulations on completing your first Hasura DDN project with Snowflake! 🎉

Here's what you just accomplished:

- You started with a fresh project and connected it to a local Snowflake database.
- You set up metadata to represent your tables, which acts as the blueprint for your API.
- Then, you created a build — essentially compiling everything into a ready-to-use API — and successfully ran your first
  GraphQL queries to fetch data.
- Along the way, you learned how to iterate on your schema and refresh your metadata to reflect changes.

Now, you're equipped to connect and expose your data, empowering you to iterate and scale with confidence. Great work!

Take a look at our Snowflake docs to learn more about how to use Hasura DDN with Snowflake. Or, if you're ready, get
started with adding [permissions](/reference/metadata-reference/permissions.mdx) to control access to your API.

Commit message:

Address review
Addresses review and opens the door to ping Gavin for connection string information.

docs/how-to-build-with-ddn/with-snowflake.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 6
sidebar_label: With Snowflake
description: "Learn the basics of Hasura DDN and how to get started with a Snowflake instance."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - graphql api
  - getting started
  - guide
  - snowflake
---

import Prereqs from "@site/docs/_prereqs.mdx";

# Get Started with Hasura DDN and Snowflake

## Overview

This tutorial takes about twenty minutes to complete. You'll learn how to:

- Set up a new Hasura DDN project
- Connect it to a Snowflake instance
- Generate Hasura metadata
- Create a build
- Run your first query

Additionally, we'll familiarize you with the steps and workflows necessary to iterate on your API.

This tutorial assumes you're starting from scratch, but you can easily follow the steps if you already have data seeded;
Hasura will never modify your source schema.

<Prereqs />

## Tutorial

### Step 1. Authenticate your CLI

```sh title="Before you can create a new Hasura DDN project, you need to authenticate your CLI:"
ddn auth login
```

This will launch a browser window prompting you to log in or sign up for Hasura DDN. After you log in, the CLI will
acknowledge your login, giving you access to Hasura Cloud resources.

### Step 2. Scaffold out a new local project

```sh title="Next, create a new local project:"
ddn supergraph init my-project && cd my-project
```

Once you move into this directory, you'll see your project scaffolded out for you. You can view the structure by either
running `ls` in your terminal, or by opening the directory in your preferred editor.

### Step 3. Initialize your Snowflake connector

```sh title="In your project directory, run:"
ddn connector init my_snowflake -i
```

```plaintext title="The CLI will ask you for a connection string in the JDBC URL format, e.g.:"
jdbc:snowflake://<account-identifier.<region>.snowflakecomputing.com?user=YOUR_USERNAME&password=YOUR_PASSWORD&db=YOUR_DATABASE&warehouse=YOUR_WAREHOUSE&schema=YOUR_SCHEMA&role=YOUR_ROLE
```

:::info Generating Snowflake JDBC URLs

From Snowflake's UI, you can click on the account menu in the Snowflake control panel and then select
`Connect a tool to Snowflake` to get a generated JDBC string from the `Connector/Drivers` tab

To learn more about Snowflake's conventions for JDBC URLs, see their
[docs](https://docs.snowflake.com/developer-guide/jdbc/jdbc-configure#jdbc-driver-connection-string).

:::

### Step 4. Create and seed a new Snowflake database

In a warehouse, create a new database called `DOCS`. Then, on the `PUBLIC` schema for the `DOCS` database, create a new
table using the standard format via the Snowflake UI:

```sql
CREATE TABLE users (
  id INT AUTOINCREMENT START 1 INCREMENT 1 PRIMARY KEY,
  name STRING NOT NULL,
  age INT NOT NULL
);
```

Next, open a new worksheet on your database's `PUBLIC` schema and insert some seed data:

```sql
INSERT INTO users (name, age) VALUES ('Alice', 25);
INSERT INTO users (name, age) VALUES ('Bob', 30);
INSERT INTO users (name, age) VALUES ('Charlie', 35);
```

You can verify this worked by using the worksheet to query all records from the `users` table:

```sql
SELECT * FROM users;
```

### Step 5. Introspect your Snowflake database

```sh title="Next, use the CLI to introspect your Snowflake database:"
ddn connector introspect my_snowflake
```

After running this, you should see a representation of your database's schema in the
`app/connector/my_snowflake/configuration.json` file; you can view this using `cat` or open the file in your editor.

```sh title="Additionally, you can check which resources are available — and their status — at any point using the CLI:"
ddn connector show-resources my_snowflake
```

### Step 6. Add your model

```sh title="Now, track the table from your Snowflake database as a model in your DDN metadata:"
ddn model add my_snowflake DOCS.PUBLIC.USERS
```

Open the `app/metadata` directory and you'll find a newly-generated file: `DocsPublicUsers.hml`. The DDN CLI will use
this Hasura Metadata Language file to represent the `users` table from Snowflake in your API as a
[model](/reference/metadata-reference/models.mdx).

### Step 7. Create a new build

```sh title="To create a local build, run:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

The build is stored as a set of JSON files in `engine/build`.

### Step 8. Start your local services

```sh title="Start your local Hasura DDN Engine and Snowflake connector:"
ddn run docker-start
```

Your terminal will be taken over by logs for the different services.

### Step 9. Run your first query

```sh title="In a new terminal tab, open your local console:"
ddn console --local
```

```graphql title="In the GraphiQL explorer of the console, write this query:"
query {
  docsPublicUsers {
    id
    name
    age
  }
}
```

```json title="You'll get the following response:"
{
  "data": {
    "docsPublicUsers": [
      {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "Alice",
        "age": 25
      },
      {
        "id": 2,
        "name": "Bob",
        "age": 30
      },
      {
        "id": 3,
        "name": "Charlie",
        "age": 35
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Step 10. Iterate on your Snowflake schema

```sql title="Add a new table for posts:"
CREATE TABLE posts (
  id INT AUTOINCREMENT PRIMARY KEY,
  user_id INT NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE,
  title TEXT NOT NULL,
  content TEXT NOT NULL,
  created_at TIMESTAMP_NTZ DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP()
);

INSERT INTO posts (user_id, title, content) VALUES
  (1, 'My First Post', 'This is Alice''s first post.'),
  (1, 'Another Post', 'Alice writes again!'),
  (2, 'Bob''s Post', 'Bob shares his thoughts.'),
  (3, 'Hello World', 'Charlie joins the conversation.');
```

```sql title="Using the worksheet, query the joined data:"
SELECT
  posts.id AS post_id,
  posts.title,
  posts.content,
  posts.created_at,
  users.name AS author
FROM
  posts
JOIN
  users ON posts.user_id = users.id;
```

You should see a list of posts returned with the author's information joined from the `users` table

### Step 11. Refresh your metadata and rebuild your project

:::tip

The following steps are necessary each time you make changes to your **source** schema. This includes, adding,
modifying, or dropping tables.

:::

#### Step 11.1. Re-introspect your data source

```sh title="Run the introspection command again:"
ddn connector introspect my_snowflake
```

In `app/connector/my_snowflake/configuration.json`, you'll see schema updated to include operations for the `posts`
table. In `app/metadata/my_snowflake.hml`, you'll see `DOCS.PUBLIC.POSTS` present in the metadata as well.

#### Step 11.2. Update your metadata

```sh title="Add the posts model:"
ddn model add my_snowflake "DOCS.PUBLIC.POSTS"
```

#### Step 11.3. Create a new build

```sh title="Next, create a new build:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

#### Step 11.4. Restart your services

```sh title="Bring down the services by pressing CTRL+C and start them back up:"
ddn run docker-start
```

### Step 12. Query your new build

```graphql title="Head back to your console and query the posts model:"
query GetPosts {
  docsPublicPosts {
    id
    title
    content
  }
}
```

```json title="You'll get a response like this:"
{
  "data": {
    "docsPublicPosts": [
      {
        "id": 1,
        "title": "My First Post",
        "content": "This is Alice's first post."
      },
      {
        "id": 2,
        "title": "Another Post",
        "content": "Alice writes again!"
      },
      {
        "id": 3,
        "title": "Bob's Post",
        "content": "Bob shares his thoughts."
      },
      {
        "id": 4,
        "title": "Hello World",
        "content": "Charlie joins the conversation."
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Next steps

Congratulations on completing your first Hasura DDN project with Snowflake! 🎉

Here's what you just accomplished:

- You started with a fresh project and connected it to a local Snowflake database.
- You set up metadata to represent your tables, which acts as the blueprint for your API.
- Then, you created a build — essentially compiling everything into a ready-to-use API — and successfully ran your first
  GraphQL queries to fetch data.
- Along the way, you learned how to iterate on your schema and refresh your metadata to reflect changes.

Now, you're equipped to connect and expose your data, empowering you to iterate and scale with confidence. Great work!

Take a look at our Snowflake docs to learn more about how to use Hasura DDN with Snowflake. Or, if you're ready, get
started with adding [permissions](/reference/metadata-reference/permissions.mdx) to control access to your API.
