docs/how-to-build-with-ddn/with-mongodb.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_label: With MongoDB
description: "Learn the basics of Hasura DDN and how to get started with a MongoDB database."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - graphql api
  - getting started
  - guide
  - mongodb
  - mongo
---

import Prereqs from "@site/docs/_prereqs.mdx";

# Get Started with Hasura DDN and MongoDB

## Overview

This tutorial takes about fifteen minutes to complete. You'll learn how to:

- Set up a new Hasura DDN project
- Connect it to a MongoDB database
- Generate Hasura metadata
- Create a build
- Run your first query

Additionally, we'll familiarize you with the steps and workflows necessary to iterate on your API.

This tutorial assumes you're starting from scratch. We'll use a locally running MongoDB instance via Docker and connect
it to Hasura, but you can easily follow the steps if you already have data seeded; Hasura will never modify your source
schema.

<Prereqs />

## Tutorial

### Step 1. Install mongosh

This tutorial uses mongosh — the Mongo shell — to interact with the local MongoDB instance. You can download it
[here](https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/shell).

### Step 2. Authenticate your CLI

```sh title="Before you can create a new Hasura DDN project, you need to authenticate your CLI:"
ddn auth login
```

This will launch a browser window prompting you to log in or sign up for Hasura DDN. After you log in, the CLI will
acknowledge your login, giving you access to Hasura Cloud resources.

### Step 3. Scaffold out a new local project

```sh title="Next, create a new local project:"
ddn supergraph init my-project && cd my-project
```

Once you move into this directory, you'll see your project scaffolded out for you. You can view the structure by either
running `ls` in your terminal, or by opening the directory in your preferred editor.

### Step 4. Initialize your MongoDB connector

```sh title="In your project directory, run:"
ddn connector init my_mongo -i
```

From the dropdown, start typing `mongo` and hit enter to accept the default port. Then, provide the following connection
string:

```plaintext
mongodb://local.hasura.dev:27017/my_database
```

### Step 5. Start the local MongoDB container

```sh title="Begin by creating a compose file for the Mongo service:"
touch app/connector/my_mongo/compose.mongo.yaml
```

```yaml title="Then, open the file and add the following:"
services:
  mongodb:
    image: mongo:latest
    container_name: mongodb
    ports:
      - "27017:27017"
```

```sh title="Run the container:"
docker compose -f app/connector/my_mongo/compose.mongo.yaml up -d
```

```sh title="Use the mongosh shell to seed the database:"
docker exec -it mongodb mongosh my_database --eval "
db.users.insertMany([
  { user_id: 1, name: 'Alice', age: 25 },
  { user_id: 2, name: 'Bob', age: 30 },
  { user_id: 3, name: 'Charlie', age: 35 }
]);
"
```

The shell will return information about the newly-inserted `users` records.

### Step 6. Introspect your MongoDB database

```sh title="Next, use the CLI to introspect your MongoDB database:"
ddn connector introspect my_mongo
```

After running this, you should see a representation of your collection's schema in
`app/connector/my_mongo/schema/users.json`; you can view this using `cat` or open the file in your editor.

For each collection in your database, the MongoDB connector will generate a separate JSON file representing it.

### Step 7. Add your model

```sh title="Now, track the collection from your MongoDB database as a model in your DDN metadata:"
ddn models add my_mongo users
```

Open the `app/metadata` directory and you'll find a newly-generated file: `Users.hml`. The DDN CLI will use this Hasura
Metadata Language file to represent the `users` collections from MongoDB in your API as a
[model](/supergraph-modeling/models.mdx).

### Step 8. Create a new build

```sh title="To create a local build, run:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

The build is stored as a set of JSON files in `engine/build`.

### Step 9. Start your local services

```sh title="Start your local Hasura DDN Engine and MongoDB connector:"
ddn run docker-start
```

Your terminal will be taken over by logs for the different services.

### Step 10. Run your first query

```sh title="In a new terminal tab, open your local console:"
ddn console --local
```

```graphql title="In the GraphiQL explorer of the console, write this query:"
query {
  users {
    userId
    name
    age
  }
}
```

```json title="You'll get the following response:"
{
  "data": {
    "users": [
      {
        "userId": 1,
        "name": "Alice",
        "age": 25
      },
      {
        "userId": 2,
        "name": "Bob",
        "age": 30
      },
      {
        "userId": 3,
        "name": "Charlie",
        "age": 35
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Step 11. Iterate on your MongoDB schema

```sh title="Let's add a new collection for posts:"

docker exec -it mongodb mongosh my_database --eval "
db.posts.insertMany([
  { user_id: 1, title: 'My First Post', content: 'This is Alice\'s first post.' },
  { user_id: 1, title: 'Another Post', content: 'Alice writes again!' },
  { user_id: 2, title: 'Bob\'s Post', content: 'Bob shares his thoughts.' },
  { user_id: 3, title: 'Hello World', content: 'Charlie joins the conversation.' }
]);
"
```

### Step 12. Refresh your metadata and rebuild your project

:::tip

The following steps are necessary each time you make changes to your **source** schema. This includes, adding,
modifying, or dropping collections.

:::

#### Step 12.1. Re-introspect your data source

```sh title="Run the introspection command again:"
ddn connector introspect my_mongo
```

In `app/connector/my_mongo/configuration.json`, you'll see schema updated to include operations for the `posts`
collection. You'll also see a `posts.json` file in the `schema` directory.

#### Step 12.2. Update your metadata

```sh title="Add the posts model:"
ddn model add my_mongo posts
```

#### Step 12.3. Kill your services

Bring down the services by pressing `CTRL+C` in the terminal tab logging their activity.

#### Step 12.4. Create a new build

```sh title="Next, create a new build:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

#### Step 12.5. Delete your connector's image

Open Docker Desktop and delete the container **and** image for your MongoDB connector. It should be named something
similar to `app-my_mongo-1`.

#### Step 12.6 Restart your services

```sh title="Bring everything back up:"
ddn run docker-start
```

This will create a fresh image of your connector along with restarting your other services.

### Step 13. Query your new build

```graphql title="Head back to your console and query the posts model:"
query GetPosts {
  posts {
    userId
    title
    content
  }
}
```

```json title="You'll get a response like this:"
{
  "data": {
    "posts": [
      {
        "userId": 1,
        "title": "My First Post",
        "content": "This is Alice's first post."
      },
      {
        "userId": 1,
        "title": "Another Post",
        "content": "Alice writes again!"
      },
      {
        "userId": 2,
        "title": "Bob's Post",
        "content": "Bob shares his thoughts."
      },
      {
        "userId": 3,
        "title": "Hello World",
        "content": "Charlie joins the conversation."
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Step 14. Create a relationship

```yaml title="Open the Posts.hml file and add the following to the end:"
---
kind: Relationship
version: v1
definition:
  name: user
  sourceType: Posts
  target:
    model:
      name: Users
      relationshipType: Object
  mapping:
    - source:
        fieldPath:
          - fieldName: userId
      target:
        modelField:
          - fieldName: userId
```

:::tip LSP-Assisted authoring is available

We've created an extension for VS Code that leverages LSP to make authoring these metadata objects easier. Check it out
[here](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=HasuraHQ.hasura).

:::

### Step 15. Rebuild your project

Bring down the services by pressing `CTRL+C` in the terminal tab logging their activity.

```sh title="As your metadata has changed, create a new build:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

As before, open Docker Desktop and delete the container **and** image for your MongoDB connector. It should be named
something similar to `app-my_mongo-1`.

```sh title="Bring everything back up:"
ddn run docker-start
```

### Step 16. Query using your relationship

```graphql title="Now, execute a nested query using your relationship:"
query GetPosts {
  posts {
    title
    content
    user {
      userId
      name
      age
    }
  }
}
```

```json title="Which should return a result like this:"
{
  "data": {
    "posts": [
      {
        "title": "My First Post",
        "content": "This is Alice's first post.",
        "user": {
          "userId": 1,
          "name": "Alice",
          "age": 25
        }
      },
      {
        "title": "Another Post",
        "content": "Alice writes again!",
        "user": {
          "userId": 1,
          "name": "Alice",
          "age": 25
        }
      },
      {
        "title": "Bob's Post",
        "content": "Bob shares his thoughts.",
        "user": {
          "userId": 2,
          "name": "Bob",
          "age": 30
        }
      },
      {
        "title": "Hello World",
        "content": "Charlie joins the conversation.",
        "user": {
          "userId": 3,
          "name": "Charlie",
          "age": 35
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Next steps

Congratulations on completing your first Hasura DDN project with MongoDB! 🎉

Here's what you just accomplished:

- You started with a fresh project and connected it to a local MongoDB database.
- You set up metadata to represent your collections and relationships, which acts as the blueprint for your API.
- Then, you created a build — essentially compiling everything into a ready-to-use API — and successfully ran your first
  GraphQL queries to fetch data.
- Along the way, you learned how to iterate on your schema and refresh your metadata to reflect changes.

Now, you're equipped to connect and expose your data, empowering you to iterate and scale with confidence. Great work!

Take a look at our [MongoDB docs](/connectors/mongodb/index.mdx) to learn more about how to use Hasura DDN with MongoDB.
Or, if you're ready, get started with adding [permissions](/supergraph-modeling/permissions.mdx) to control access to
your API.

Commit message:

Add show-resources to each connector
Adds show-resources command to each connector after introspection.

docs/how-to-build-with-ddn/with-mongodb.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_label: With MongoDB
description: "Learn the basics of Hasura DDN and how to get started with a MongoDB database."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - graphql api
  - getting started
  - guide
  - mongodb
  - mongo
---

import Prereqs from "@site/docs/_prereqs.mdx";

# Get Started with Hasura DDN and MongoDB

## Overview

This tutorial takes about fifteen minutes to complete. You'll learn how to:

- Set up a new Hasura DDN project
- Connect it to a MongoDB database
- Generate Hasura metadata
- Create a build
- Run your first query

Additionally, we'll familiarize you with the steps and workflows necessary to iterate on your API.

This tutorial assumes you're starting from scratch. We'll use a locally running MongoDB instance via Docker and connect
it to Hasura, but you can easily follow the steps if you already have data seeded; Hasura will never modify your source
schema.

<Prereqs />

## Tutorial

### Step 1. Install mongosh

This tutorial uses mongosh — the Mongo shell — to interact with the local MongoDB instance. You can download it
[here](https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/shell).

### Step 2. Authenticate your CLI

```sh title="Before you can create a new Hasura DDN project, you need to authenticate your CLI:"
ddn auth login
```

This will launch a browser window prompting you to log in or sign up for Hasura DDN. After you log in, the CLI will
acknowledge your login, giving you access to Hasura Cloud resources.

### Step 3. Scaffold out a new local project

```sh title="Next, create a new local project:"
ddn supergraph init my-project && cd my-project
```

Once you move into this directory, you'll see your project scaffolded out for you. You can view the structure by either
running `ls` in your terminal, or by opening the directory in your preferred editor.

### Step 4. Initialize your MongoDB connector

```sh title="In your project directory, run:"
ddn connector init my_mongo -i
```

From the dropdown, start typing `mongo` and hit enter to accept the default port. Then, provide the following connection
string:

```plaintext
mongodb://local.hasura.dev:27017/my_database
```

### Step 5. Start the local MongoDB container

```sh title="Begin by creating a compose file for the Mongo service:"
touch app/connector/my_mongo/compose.mongo.yaml
```

```yaml title="Then, open the file and add the following:"
services:
  mongodb:
    image: mongo:latest
    container_name: mongodb
    ports:
      - "27017:27017"
```

```sh title="Run the container:"
docker compose -f app/connector/my_mongo/compose.mongo.yaml up -d
```

```sh title="Use the mongosh shell to seed the database:"
docker exec -it mongodb mongosh my_database --eval "
db.users.insertMany([
  { user_id: 1, name: 'Alice', age: 25 },
  { user_id: 2, name: 'Bob', age: 30 },
  { user_id: 3, name: 'Charlie', age: 35 }
]);
"
```

The shell will return information about the newly-inserted `users` records.

### Step 6. Introspect your MongoDB database

```sh title="Next, use the CLI to introspect your MongoDB database:"
ddn connector introspect my_mongo
```

After running this, you should see a representation of your collection's schema in
`app/connector/my_mongo/schema/users.json`; you can view this using `cat` or open the file in your editor.

For each collection in your database, the MongoDB connector will generate a separate JSON file representing it.

```sh title="Additionally, you can check which resources are available — and their status — at any point using the CLI:"
ddn connector show-resources my_mongo
```

### Step 7. Add your model

```sh title="Now, track the collection from your MongoDB database as a model in your DDN metadata:"
ddn models add my_mongo users
```

Open the `app/metadata` directory and you'll find a newly-generated file: `Users.hml`. The DDN CLI will use this Hasura
Metadata Language file to represent the `users` collections from MongoDB in your API as a
[model](/supergraph-modeling/models.mdx).

### Step 8. Create a new build

```sh title="To create a local build, run:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

The build is stored as a set of JSON files in `engine/build`.

### Step 9. Start your local services

```sh title="Start your local Hasura DDN Engine and MongoDB connector:"
ddn run docker-start
```

Your terminal will be taken over by logs for the different services.

### Step 10. Run your first query

```sh title="In a new terminal tab, open your local console:"
ddn console --local
```

```graphql title="In the GraphiQL explorer of the console, write this query:"
query {
  users {
    userId
    name
    age
  }
}
```

```json title="You'll get the following response:"
{
  "data": {
    "users": [
      {
        "userId": 1,
        "name": "Alice",
        "age": 25
      },
      {
        "userId": 2,
        "name": "Bob",
        "age": 30
      },
      {
        "userId": 3,
        "name": "Charlie",
        "age": 35
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Step 11. Iterate on your MongoDB schema

```sh title="Let's add a new collection for posts:"

docker exec -it mongodb mongosh my_database --eval "
db.posts.insertMany([
  { user_id: 1, title: 'My First Post', content: 'This is Alice\'s first post.' },
  { user_id: 1, title: 'Another Post', content: 'Alice writes again!' },
  { user_id: 2, title: 'Bob\'s Post', content: 'Bob shares his thoughts.' },
  { user_id: 3, title: 'Hello World', content: 'Charlie joins the conversation.' }
]);
"
```

### Step 12. Refresh your metadata and rebuild your project

:::tip

The following steps are necessary each time you make changes to your **source** schema. This includes, adding,
modifying, or dropping collections.

:::

#### Step 12.1. Re-introspect your data source

```sh title="Run the introspection command again:"
ddn connector introspect my_mongo
```

In `app/connector/my_mongo/configuration.json`, you'll see schema updated to include operations for the `posts`
collection. You'll also see a `posts.json` file in the `schema` directory.

#### Step 12.2. Update your metadata

```sh title="Add the posts model:"
ddn model add my_mongo posts
```

#### Step 12.3. Kill your services

Bring down the services by pressing `CTRL+C` in the terminal tab logging their activity.

#### Step 12.4. Create a new build

```sh title="Next, create a new build:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

#### Step 12.5. Delete your connector's image

Open Docker Desktop and delete the container **and** image for your MongoDB connector. It should be named something
similar to `app-my_mongo-1`.

#### Step 12.6 Restart your services

```sh title="Bring everything back up:"
ddn run docker-start
```

This will create a fresh image of your connector along with restarting your other services.

### Step 13. Query your new build

```graphql title="Head back to your console and query the posts model:"
query GetPosts {
  posts {
    userId
    title
    content
  }
}
```

```json title="You'll get a response like this:"
{
  "data": {
    "posts": [
      {
        "userId": 1,
        "title": "My First Post",
        "content": "This is Alice's first post."
      },
      {
        "userId": 1,
        "title": "Another Post",
        "content": "Alice writes again!"
      },
      {
        "userId": 2,
        "title": "Bob's Post",
        "content": "Bob shares his thoughts."
      },
      {
        "userId": 3,
        "title": "Hello World",
        "content": "Charlie joins the conversation."
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Step 14. Create a relationship

```yaml title="Open the Posts.hml file and add the following to the end:"
---
kind: Relationship
version: v1
definition:
  name: user
  sourceType: Posts
  target:
    model:
      name: Users
      relationshipType: Object
  mapping:
    - source:
        fieldPath:
          - fieldName: userId
      target:
        modelField:
          - fieldName: userId
```

:::tip LSP-Assisted authoring is available

We've created an extension for VS Code that leverages LSP to make authoring these metadata objects easier. Check it out
[here](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=HasuraHQ.hasura).

:::

### Step 15. Rebuild your project

Bring down the services by pressing `CTRL+C` in the terminal tab logging their activity.

```sh title="As your metadata has changed, create a new build:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

As before, open Docker Desktop and delete the container **and** image for your MongoDB connector. It should be named
something similar to `app-my_mongo-1`.

```sh title="Bring everything back up:"
ddn run docker-start
```

### Step 16. Query using your relationship

```graphql title="Now, execute a nested query using your relationship:"
query GetPosts {
  posts {
    title
    content
    user {
      userId
      name
      age
    }
  }
}
```

```json title="Which should return a result like this:"
{
  "data": {
    "posts": [
      {
        "title": "My First Post",
        "content": "This is Alice's first post.",
        "user": {
          "userId": 1,
          "name": "Alice",
          "age": 25
        }
      },
      {
        "title": "Another Post",
        "content": "Alice writes again!",
        "user": {
          "userId": 1,
          "name": "Alice",
          "age": 25
        }
      },
      {
        "title": "Bob's Post",
        "content": "Bob shares his thoughts.",
        "user": {
          "userId": 2,
          "name": "Bob",
          "age": 30
        }
      },
      {
        "title": "Hello World",
        "content": "Charlie joins the conversation.",
        "user": {
          "userId": 3,
          "name": "Charlie",
          "age": 35
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Next steps

Congratulations on completing your first Hasura DDN project with MongoDB! 🎉

Here's what you just accomplished:

- You started with a fresh project and connected it to a local MongoDB database.
- You set up metadata to represent your collections and relationships, which acts as the blueprint for your API.
- Then, you created a build — essentially compiling everything into a ready-to-use API — and successfully ran your first
  GraphQL queries to fetch data.
- Along the way, you learned how to iterate on your schema and refresh your metadata to reflect changes.

Now, you're equipped to connect and expose your data, empowering you to iterate and scale with confidence. Great work!

Take a look at our [MongoDB docs](/connectors/mongodb/index.mdx) to learn more about how to use Hasura DDN with MongoDB.
Or, if you're ready, get started with adding [permissions](/supergraph-modeling/permissions.mdx) to control access to
your API.
