docs/how-to-build-with-ddn/with-databricks.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: With Databricks
description: "Learn the basics of Hasura DDN and how to get started with a Databricks instance."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - graphql api
  - getting started
  - guide
  - databricks
---

import Prereqs from "@site/docs/_prereqs.mdx";

# Get Started with Hasura DDN and Databricks

## Overview

This tutorial takes about twenty minutes to complete. You'll learn how to:

- Set up a new Hasura DDN project
- Connect it to a hosted Databricks instance
- Generate Hasura metadata
- Create a build
- Run your first query
- Create relationships

Additionally, we'll familiarize you with the steps and workflows necessary to iterate on your API.

This tutorial assumes you're starting from scratch; you'll connect a hosted Databricks instance to Hasura, but you can
easily follow the steps if you already have data seeded. Hasura will never modify your source schema.

<Prereqs />

## Tutorial

### Step 1. Authenticate your CLI

```sh title="Before you can create a new Hasura DDN project, you need to authenticate your CLI:"
ddn auth login
```

This will launch a browser window prompting you to log in or sign up for Hasura DDN. After you log in, the CLI will
acknowledge your login, giving you access to Hasura Cloud resources.

### Step 2. Scaffold out a new local project

```sh title="Next, create a new local project:"
ddn supergraph init my-project && cd my-project
```

Once you move into this directory, you'll see your project scaffolded out for you. You can view the structure by either
running `ls` in your terminal, or by opening the directory in your preferred editor.

### Step 3. Create and seed a new Databricks database

Head to [Databricks](https://databricks.com) and create an account if you don't already have one. Then, create a new
instance.

From your instance's dashboard, choose `SQL Editor` and create a new query. At the top of the query editor, there will
be a breadcrumb letting you know which **catalog** and **schema** you're currently utilizing. **Before proceeding,
ensure you've selected `main` and `default`**.

```sql title="Then, paste the SQL below to set up your schema:"
CREATE TABLE default.users (
  id BIGINT GENERATED ALWAYS AS IDENTITY, name STRING NOT NULL, age INT NOT NULL
);

COMMENT ON TABLE default.users IS 'The users table contains information about application users';

INSERT INTO default.users (name, age) 
VALUES 
  ('Alice', 25), 
  ('Bob', 30), 
  ('Charlie', 35);
```

Choose `Run all statements` to create the table, add the comment, and insert the users.

```sql title="You can verify this worked by running the following:"
SELECT * FROM users;
```

### Step 4. Initialize your Databricks connector

```sh title="In your project directory, run:"
ddn connector init my_databricks -i
```

From the dropdown, select `hasura/databricks-jdbc` (you can type to filter the list).

#### `JDBC_URL`

You'll be prompted for your JDBC URL; you can construct the base of this using your Databricks UI under `SQL Warehouses`
» `<name-of-warehouse>` » `Connection details`.

```plaintext title="An example JDBC URL for Databricks using the main catalog:"
jdbc:databricks://<host>:<port>/default;transportMode=http;ssl=1;AuthMech=3;httpPath=/sql/1.0/warehouses/<warehouse-id>;UID=token;PWD=<access-token>;ConnCatalog=main;
```

:::info Constructing your JDBC URL

The Databricks connector utilizes a JDBC URL that includes:

- An access token — which you can generate with the `Create a personal access token` button in the top right in the same UI as where you found the base for your connection string.
- A `ConnCatalog` parameter — which references the catalog to connect to and use for SQL queries during introspection.

:::

#### `JDBC_SCHEMAS`

This comma-separated list of schemas is **case-sensitive** and should not include any spaces. For our tutorial, we'll
simply enter `default` for this value.

### Step 5. Introspect your Databricks instance

```sh title="Next, use the CLI to introspect your Databricks instance:"
ddn connector introspect my_databricks
```

After running this, you should see a representation of your database's schema in the
`app/connector/my_databricks/configuration.json` file; you can view this using `cat` or open the file in your editor.

```sh title="Additionally, you can check which resources are available — and their status — at any point using the CLI:"
ddn connector show-resources my_databricks
```

### Step 6. Add your model

```sh title="Now, track the table from your Databricks instance as a model in your DDN metadata:"
ddn model add my_databricks main.default.users
```

Open the `app/metadata` directory and you'll find a newly-generated file: `MainDefaultUsers.hml`. The DDN CLI will use
this Hasura Metadata Language file to represent the `users` table from Databricks in your API as a
[model](/reference/metadata-reference/models.mdx).

### Step 7. Create a new build

```sh title="To create a local build, run:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

The build is stored as a set of JSON files in `engine/build`.

### Step 8. Start your local services

```sh title="Start your local Hasura DDN Engine and Databricks connector:"
ddn run docker-start
```

Your terminal will be taken over by logs for the different services.

### Step 9. Run your first query

```sh title="In a new terminal tab, open your local console:"
ddn console --local
```

```graphql title="In the GraphiQL explorer of the console, write this query:"
query GetUsers {
  mainDefaultUsers {
    id
    name
    age
  }
}
```

```json title="You'll get the following response:"
{
  "data": {
    "mainDefaultUsers": [
      {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "Alice",
        "age": 25
      },
      {
        "id": 2,
        "name": "Bob",
        "age": 30
      },
      {
        "id": 3,
        "name": "Charlie",
        "age": 35
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Step 10. Iterate on your Databricks schema

```sql title="Let's add a new table for posts:"
CREATE TABLE posts (
  id BIGINT GENERATED ALWAYS AS IDENTITY (START WITH 1 INCREMENT BY 1),
  user_id INT NOT NULL,
  title STRING NOT NULL,
  content STRING NOT NULL,
  created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
)
USING DELTA
TBLPROPERTIES (
  'delta.feature.allowColumnDefaults' = 'supported'
);

COMMENT ON TABLE default.posts IS 'Posts are written by users and mapped to them using their id column';

INSERT INTO posts (user_id, title, content) VALUES
  (1, 'My First Post', 'This is Alice''s first post.'),
  (1, 'Another Post', 'Alice writes again!'),
  (2, 'Bob''s Post', 'Bob shares his thoughts.'),
  (3, 'Hello World', 'Charlie joins the conversation.');
```

Choose `Run all statements` to create the table, add the comment, and insert the posts.

```sql title="Verify this by running the following query:"
-- Fetch all posts with user information
SELECT
  posts.id AS post_id,
  posts.title,
  posts.content,
  posts.created_at,
  users.name AS author
FROM
  posts
JOIN
  users ON posts.user_id = users.id;
```

You should see a list of posts returned with the author's information joined from the `users` table

### Step 11. Refresh your metadata and rebuild your project

:::tip

The following steps are necessary each time you make changes to your **source** schema. This includes, adding,
modifying, or dropping tables.

:::

#### Step 11.1. Re-introspect your data source

```sh title="Run the introspection command again:"
ddn connector introspect my_databricks
```

In `app/connector/my_databricks/configuration.json`, you'll see schema updated to include operations for the `posts`
table. In `app/metadata/my_databricks.hml`, you'll see `posts` present in the metadata as well.

#### Step 11.2. Update your metadata

```sh title="Add the posts model:"
ddn model add my_databricks main.default.posts
```

#### Step 11.3. Create a new build

```sh title="Next, create a new build:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

#### Step 11.4. Restart your services

```sh title="Bring down the services by pressing CTRL+C and start them back up:"
ddn run docker-start
```

### Step 12. Query your new build

```graphql title="Head back to your console and query the posts model:"
query GetPosts {
  mainDefaultPosts {
    id
    title
    content
  }
}
```

```json title="You'll get a response like this:"
{
  "data": {
    "mainDefaultPosts": [
      {
        "id": "1",
        "title": "My First Post",
        "content": "This is Alices first post."
      },
      {
        "id": "2",
        "title": "Another Post",
        "content": "Alice writes again!"
      },
      {
        "id": "3",
        "title": "Bobs Post",
        "content": "Bob shares his thoughts."
      },
      {
        "id": "4",
        "title": "Hello World",
        "content": "Charlie joins the conversation."
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Step 13. Create a relationship

```yaml title="Find the MainDefaultPosts.hml file in your connector's metadata directory and add the following relationship object to the bottom:"
---
kind: Relationship
version: v1
definition:
  name: user
  sourceType: MainDefaultPosts
  target:
    model:
      name: MainDefaultUsers
      relationshipType: Object
  mapping:
    - source:
        fieldPath:
          - fieldName: userId
      target:
        modelField:
          - fieldName: id
```

This will create a relationship that maps the `userId` for any post to the `id` of a user, allowing for nested queries.

### Step 14. Rebuild your project

```sh title="As your metadata has changed, create a new build:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

```sh title="Bring down the services by pressing CTRL+C and start them back up:"
ddn run docker-start
```

### Step 15. Query using your relationship

```graphql title="Now, execute a nested query using your relationship:"
query GetPosts {
  mainDefaultPosts {
    id
    title
    content
    user {
      id
      name
      age
    }
  }
}
```

```json title="Which should return a result like this:"
{
  "data": {
    "mainDefaultPosts": [
      {
        "id": "1",
        "title": "My First Post",
        "content": "This is Alices first post.",
        "user": {
          "id": "1",
          "name": "Alice",
          "age": 25
        }
      },
      {
        "id": "2",
        "title": "Another Post",
        "content": "Alice writes again!",
        "user": {
          "id": "1",
          "name": "Alice",
          "age": 25
        }
      },
      {
        "id": "3",
        "title": "Bobs Post",
        "content": "Bob shares his thoughts.",
        "user": {
          "id": "2",
          "name": "Bob",
          "age": 30
        }
      },
      {
        "id": "4",
        "title": "Hello World",
        "content": "Charlie joins the conversation.",
        "user": {
          "id": "3",
          "name": "Charlie",
          "age": 35
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Next steps

Congratulations on completing your first Hasura DDN project with Databricks! 🎉

Here's what you just accomplished:

- You started with a fresh project and connected it to a hosted Databricks instance.
- You set up metadata to represent your tables and relationships, which acts as the blueprint for your API.
- Then, you created a build — essentially compiling everything into a ready-to-use API — and successfully ran your first
  GraphQL queries to fetch data.
- Along the way, you learned how to iterate on your schema and refresh your metadata to reflect changes.

Now, you're equipped to connect and expose your data, empowering you to iterate and scale with confidence. Great work!

Take a look at our [Databricks docs](/reference/connectors/databricks/index.mdx) to learn more about how to use Hasura
DDN with Databricks. Or, if you're ready, get started with adding [permissions](/auth/permissions/index.mdx) to control
access to your API.

Commit message:

Add connector ids to pages and categories

docs/how-to-build-with-ddn/with-databricks.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: With Databricks
description: "Learn the basics of Hasura DDN and how to get started with a Databricks instance."
custom_props:
  connector-ids:
    - databricks
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - graphql api
  - getting started
  - guide
  - databricks
---

import Prereqs from "@site/docs/_prereqs.mdx";

# Get Started with Hasura DDN and Databricks

## Overview

This tutorial takes about twenty minutes to complete. You'll learn how to:

- Set up a new Hasura DDN project
- Connect it to a hosted Databricks instance
- Generate Hasura metadata
- Create a build
- Run your first query
- Create relationships

Additionally, we'll familiarize you with the steps and workflows necessary to iterate on your API.

This tutorial assumes you're starting from scratch; you'll connect a hosted Databricks instance to Hasura, but you can
easily follow the steps if you already have data seeded. Hasura will never modify your source schema.

<Prereqs />

## Tutorial

### Step 1. Authenticate your CLI

```sh title="Before you can create a new Hasura DDN project, you need to authenticate your CLI:"
ddn auth login
```

This will launch a browser window prompting you to log in or sign up for Hasura DDN. After you log in, the CLI will
acknowledge your login, giving you access to Hasura Cloud resources.

### Step 2. Scaffold out a new local project

```sh title="Next, create a new local project:"
ddn supergraph init my-project && cd my-project
```

Once you move into this directory, you'll see your project scaffolded out for you. You can view the structure by either
running `ls` in your terminal, or by opening the directory in your preferred editor.

### Step 3. Create and seed a new Databricks database

Head to [Databricks](https://databricks.com) and create an account if you don't already have one. Then, create a new
instance.

From your instance's dashboard, choose `SQL Editor` and create a new query. At the top of the query editor, there will
be a breadcrumb letting you know which **catalog** and **schema** you're currently utilizing. **Before proceeding,
ensure you've selected `main` and `default`**.

```sql title="Then, paste the SQL below to set up your schema:"
CREATE TABLE default.users (
  id BIGINT GENERATED ALWAYS AS IDENTITY, name STRING NOT NULL, age INT NOT NULL
);

COMMENT ON TABLE default.users IS 'The users table contains information about application users';

INSERT INTO default.users (name, age)
VALUES
  ('Alice', 25),
  ('Bob', 30),
  ('Charlie', 35);
```

Choose `Run all statements` to create the table, add the comment, and insert the users.

```sql title="You can verify this worked by running the following:"
SELECT * FROM users;
```

### Step 4. Initialize your Databricks connector

```sh title="In your project directory, run:"
ddn connector init my_databricks -i
```

From the dropdown, select `hasura/databricks-jdbc` (you can type to filter the list).

#### `JDBC_URL`

You'll be prompted for your JDBC URL; you can construct the base of this using your Databricks UI under `SQL Warehouses`
» `<name-of-warehouse>` » `Connection details`.

```plaintext title="An example JDBC URL for Databricks using the main catalog:"
jdbc:databricks://<host>:<port>/default;transportMode=http;ssl=1;AuthMech=3;httpPath=/sql/1.0/warehouses/<warehouse-id>;UID=token;PWD=<access-token>;ConnCatalog=main;
```

:::info Constructing your JDBC URL

The Databricks connector utilizes a JDBC URL that includes:

- An access token — which you can generate with the `Create a personal access token` button in the top right in the same
  UI as where you found the base for your connection string.
- A `ConnCatalog` parameter — which references the catalog to connect to and use for SQL queries during introspection.

:::

#### `JDBC_SCHEMAS`

This comma-separated list of schemas is **case-sensitive** and should not include any spaces. For our tutorial, we'll
simply enter `default` for this value.

### Step 5. Introspect your Databricks instance

```sh title="Next, use the CLI to introspect your Databricks instance:"
ddn connector introspect my_databricks
```

After running this, you should see a representation of your database's schema in the
`app/connector/my_databricks/configuration.json` file; you can view this using `cat` or open the file in your editor.

```sh title="Additionally, you can check which resources are available — and their status — at any point using the CLI:"
ddn connector show-resources my_databricks
```

### Step 6. Add your model

```sh title="Now, track the table from your Databricks instance as a model in your DDN metadata:"
ddn model add my_databricks main.default.users
```

Open the `app/metadata` directory and you'll find a newly-generated file: `MainDefaultUsers.hml`. The DDN CLI will use
this Hasura Metadata Language file to represent the `users` table from Databricks in your API as a
[model](/reference/metadata-reference/models.mdx).

### Step 7. Create a new build

```sh title="To create a local build, run:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

The build is stored as a set of JSON files in `engine/build`.

### Step 8. Start your local services

```sh title="Start your local Hasura DDN Engine and Databricks connector:"
ddn run docker-start
```

Your terminal will be taken over by logs for the different services.

### Step 9. Run your first query

```sh title="In a new terminal tab, open your local console:"
ddn console --local
```

```graphql title="In the GraphiQL explorer of the console, write this query:"
query GetUsers {
  mainDefaultUsers {
    id
    name
    age
  }
}
```

```json title="You'll get the following response:"
{
  "data": {
    "mainDefaultUsers": [
      {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "Alice",
        "age": 25
      },
      {
        "id": 2,
        "name": "Bob",
        "age": 30
      },
      {
        "id": 3,
        "name": "Charlie",
        "age": 35
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Step 10. Iterate on your Databricks schema

```sql title="Let's add a new table for posts:"
CREATE TABLE posts (
  id BIGINT GENERATED ALWAYS AS IDENTITY (START WITH 1 INCREMENT BY 1),
  user_id INT NOT NULL,
  title STRING NOT NULL,
  content STRING NOT NULL,
  created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
)
USING DELTA
TBLPROPERTIES (
  'delta.feature.allowColumnDefaults' = 'supported'
);

COMMENT ON TABLE default.posts IS 'Posts are written by users and mapped to them using their id column';

INSERT INTO posts (user_id, title, content) VALUES
  (1, 'My First Post', 'This is Alice''s first post.'),
  (1, 'Another Post', 'Alice writes again!'),
  (2, 'Bob''s Post', 'Bob shares his thoughts.'),
  (3, 'Hello World', 'Charlie joins the conversation.');
```

Choose `Run all statements` to create the table, add the comment, and insert the posts.

```sql title="Verify this by running the following query:"
-- Fetch all posts with user information
SELECT
  posts.id AS post_id,
  posts.title,
  posts.content,
  posts.created_at,
  users.name AS author
FROM
  posts
JOIN
  users ON posts.user_id = users.id;
```

You should see a list of posts returned with the author's information joined from the `users` table

### Step 11. Refresh your metadata and rebuild your project

:::tip

The following steps are necessary each time you make changes to your **source** schema. This includes, adding,
modifying, or dropping tables.

:::

#### Step 11.1. Re-introspect your data source

```sh title="Run the introspection command again:"
ddn connector introspect my_databricks
```

In `app/connector/my_databricks/configuration.json`, you'll see schema updated to include operations for the `posts`
table. In `app/metadata/my_databricks.hml`, you'll see `posts` present in the metadata as well.

#### Step 11.2. Update your metadata

```sh title="Add the posts model:"
ddn model add my_databricks main.default.posts
```

#### Step 11.3. Create a new build

```sh title="Next, create a new build:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

#### Step 11.4. Restart your services

```sh title="Bring down the services by pressing CTRL+C and start them back up:"
ddn run docker-start
```

### Step 12. Query your new build

```graphql title="Head back to your console and query the posts model:"
query GetPosts {
  mainDefaultPosts {
    id
    title
    content
  }
}
```

```json title="You'll get a response like this:"
{
  "data": {
    "mainDefaultPosts": [
      {
        "id": "1",
        "title": "My First Post",
        "content": "This is Alices first post."
      },
      {
        "id": "2",
        "title": "Another Post",
        "content": "Alice writes again!"
      },
      {
        "id": "3",
        "title": "Bobs Post",
        "content": "Bob shares his thoughts."
      },
      {
        "id": "4",
        "title": "Hello World",
        "content": "Charlie joins the conversation."
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Step 13. Create a relationship

```yaml title="Find the MainDefaultPosts.hml file in your connector's metadata directory and add the following relationship object to the bottom:"
---
kind: Relationship
version: v1
definition:
  name: user
  sourceType: MainDefaultPosts
  target:
    model:
      name: MainDefaultUsers
      relationshipType: Object
  mapping:
    - source:
        fieldPath:
          - fieldName: userId
      target:
        modelField:
          - fieldName: id
```

This will create a relationship that maps the `userId` for any post to the `id` of a user, allowing for nested queries.

### Step 14. Rebuild your project

```sh title="As your metadata has changed, create a new build:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

```sh title="Bring down the services by pressing CTRL+C and start them back up:"
ddn run docker-start
```

### Step 15. Query using your relationship

```graphql title="Now, execute a nested query using your relationship:"
query GetPosts {
  mainDefaultPosts {
    id
    title
    content
    user {
      id
      name
      age
    }
  }
}
```

```json title="Which should return a result like this:"
{
  "data": {
    "mainDefaultPosts": [
      {
        "id": "1",
        "title": "My First Post",
        "content": "This is Alices first post.",
        "user": {
          "id": "1",
          "name": "Alice",
          "age": 25
        }
      },
      {
        "id": "2",
        "title": "Another Post",
        "content": "Alice writes again!",
        "user": {
          "id": "1",
          "name": "Alice",
          "age": 25
        }
      },
      {
        "id": "3",
        "title": "Bobs Post",
        "content": "Bob shares his thoughts.",
        "user": {
          "id": "2",
          "name": "Bob",
          "age": 30
        }
      },
      {
        "id": "4",
        "title": "Hello World",
        "content": "Charlie joins the conversation.",
        "user": {
          "id": "3",
          "name": "Charlie",
          "age": 35
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Next steps

Congratulations on completing your first Hasura DDN project with Databricks! 🎉

Here's what you just accomplished:

- You started with a fresh project and connected it to a hosted Databricks instance.
- You set up metadata to represent your tables and relationships, which acts as the blueprint for your API.
- Then, you created a build — essentially compiling everything into a ready-to-use API — and successfully ran your first
  GraphQL queries to fetch data.
- Along the way, you learned how to iterate on your schema and refresh your metadata to reflect changes.

Now, you're equipped to connect and expose your data, empowering you to iterate and scale with confidence. Great work!

Take a look at our [Databricks docs](/reference/connectors/databricks/index.mdx) to learn more about how to use Hasura
DDN with Databricks. Or, if you're ready, get started with adding [permissions](/auth/permissions/index.mdx) to control
access to your API.
