docs/how-to-build-with-ddn/with-postgresql.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: With PostgreSQL
description: "Learn the basics of Hasura DDN and how to get started with a Postgres database."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - graphql api
  - getting started
  - guide
  - postgres
---

import Prereqs from "@site/docs/_prereqs.mdx";

# Get Started with Hasura DDN and PostgreSQL

## Overview

This tutorial takes about fifteen minutes to complete. You'll learn how to:

- Set up a new Hasura DDN project
- Connect it to a PostgreSQL database
- Generate Hasura metadata
- Create a build
- Run your first query

Additionally, we'll familiarize you with the steps and workflows necessary to iterate on your API.

This tutorial assumes you're starting from scratch; a PostgreSQL docker image ships with the data connector you'll use
in just a bit to connect a locally-running database to Hasura, but you can easily follow the steps if you already have
data seeded; Hasura will never modify your source schema.

<Prereqs />

## Tutorial

### Step 1. Authenticate your CLI

```sh title="Before you can create a new Hasura DDN project, you need to authenticate your CLI:"
ddn auth login
```

This will launch a browser window prompting you to log in or sign up for Hasura DDN. After you log in, the CLI will
acknowledge your login, giving you access to Hasura Cloud resources.

### Step 2. Scaffold out a new local project

```sh title="Next, create a new local project:"
ddn supergraph init my-project && cd my-project
```

Once you move into this directory, you'll see your project scaffolded out for you. You can view the structure by either
running `ls` in your terminal, or by opening the directory in your preferred editor.

### Step 3. Initialize your PostgreSQL connector

```sh title="In your project directory, run:"
ddn connector init my_pg -i
```

From the dropdown, start typing `PostgreSQL` and hit enter to advance through all the options.

The CLI will output something similar to this:

```plaintext
HINT To access the local Postgres database:
- Run: docker compose -f app/connector/my_pg/compose.postgres-adminer.yaml up -d
- Open Adminer in your browser at http://localhost:5143 and create tables
- To connect to the database using other clients use postgresql://user:password@local.hasura.dev:8105/dev
```

### Step 4. Start the local PostgreSQL container and Adminer

```sh title="Use the hint from the CLI output:"
docker compose -f app/connector/my_pg/compose.postgres-adminer.yaml up -d
```

Run `docker ps` to see on which port Adminer is running. Then, you can then navigate to the address below to access it:

```plaintext
http://localhost:<ADMINER_PORT>
```

### Step 5. Create a table in your PostgreSQL database

```sql title="Next, via Adminer select SQL command from the left-hand nav, then enter the following:"
--- Create the table
CREATE TABLE users (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  name TEXT NOT NULL,
  age INT NOT NULL
);

--- Insert some data
INSERT INTO users (name, age) VALUES ('Alice', 25);
INSERT INTO users (name, age) VALUES ('Bob', 30);
INSERT INTO users (name, age) VALUES ('Charlie', 35);
```

You can verify this worked by using Adminer to query all records from the `users` table:

```sql
SELECT * FROM users;
```

### Step 6. Introspect your PostgreSQL database

```sh title="Next, use the CLI to introspect your PostgreSQL database:"
ddn connector introspect my_pg
```

After running this, you should see a representation of your database's schema in the
`app/connector/my_pg/configuration.json` file; you can view this using `cat` or open the file in your editor.

### Step 7. Add your model

```sh title="Now, track the table from your PostgreSQL database as a model in your DDN metadata:"
ddn models add my_pg users
```

Open the `app/metadata` directory and you'll find a newly-generated file: `Users.hml`. The DDN CLI will use this Hasura
Metadata Language file to represent the `users` table from PostgreSQL in your API as a
[model](/supergraph-modeling/models.mdx).

### Step 8. Create a new build

```sh title="To create a local build, run:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

The build is stored as a set of JSON files in `engine/build`.

### Step 9. Start your local services

```sh title="Start your local Hasura DDN Engine and PostgreSQL connector:"
ddn run docker-start
```

Your terminal will be taken over by logs for the different services.

### Step 10. Run your first query

```sh title="In a new terminal tab, open your local console:"
ddn console --local
```

```graphql title="In the GraphiQL explorer of the console, write this query:"
query {
  users {
    id
    name
    age
  }
}
```

```json title="You'll get the following response:"
{
  "data": {
    "users": [
      {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "Alice",
        "age": 25
      },
      {
        "id": 2,
        "name": "Bob",
        "age": 30
      },
      {
        "id": 3,
        "name": "Charlie",
        "age": 35
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Step 11. Iterate on your PostgreSQL schema

```sql title="Via Adminer, add a new table and insert some data to your PostgreSQL database:"
-- Create the posts table
CREATE TABLE posts (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  user_id INT NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE,
  title TEXT NOT NULL,
  content TEXT NOT NULL,
  created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
);

-- Insert some seed data
INSERT INTO posts (user_id, title, content) VALUES
  (1, 'My First Post', 'This is Alice''s first post.'),
  (1, 'Another Post', 'Alice writes again!'),
  (2, 'Bob''s Post', 'Bob shares his thoughts.'),
  (3, 'Hello World', 'Charlie joins the conversation.');
```

```sql title="Using Adminer, verify this by running the following query:"
-- Fetch all posts with user information
SELECT
  posts.id AS post_id,
  posts.title,
  posts.content,
  posts.created_at,
  users.name AS author
FROM
  posts
JOIN
  users ON posts.user_id = users.id;
```

You should see a list of posts returned with the author's information joined from the `users` table

### Step 12. Refresh your metadata and rebuild your project

:::tip

The following steps are necessary each time you make changes to your **source** schema. This includes, adding,
modifying, or dropping tables.

:::

#### Step 12.1. Re-introspect your data source

```sh title="Run the introspection command again:"
ddn connector introspect my_pg
```

In `app/connector/my_pg/configuration.json`, you'll see schema updated to include operations for the `posts` table. In
`app/metadata/my_pg.hml`, you'll see `posts` present in the metadata as well.

#### Step 12.2. Update your metadata

```sh title="Add the posts model:"
ddn model add my_pg "posts"
```

#### Step 12.3. Create a new build

```sh title="Next, create a new build:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

#### Step 12.4. Restart your services

```sh title="Bring down the servies by pressing CTRL+C and start them back up:"
ddn run docker-start
```

### Step 13. Query your new build

```graphql title="Head back to your console and query the posts model:"
query GetPosts {
  posts {
    id
    title
    content
  }
}
```

```json title="You'll get a response like this:"
{
  "data": {
    "posts": [
      {
        "id": 1,
        "title": "My First Post",
        "content": "This is Alice's first post."
      },
      {
        "id": 2,
        "title": "Another Post",
        "content": "Alice writes again!"
      },
      {
        "id": 3,
        "title": "Bob's Post",
        "content": "Bob shares his thoughts."
      },
      {
        "id": 4,
        "title": "Hello World",
        "content": "Charlie joins the conversation."
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Step 14. Create a relationship

```sh title="Since there's already a foreign key on the posts table in PostgreSQL, we can easily add the relationship:"
ddn relationship add my_pg "posts"
```

You'll see a new metadata object added to the `app/metadata/posts.hml` file of kind `Relationship` explaining the
relationship between `posts` and `users`.

### Step 15. Rebuild your project

```sh title="As your metadata has changed, create a new build:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

```sh title="Bring down the servies by pressing CTRL+C and start them back up:"
ddn run docker-start
```

### Step 16. Query using your relationship

```graphql title="Now, execute a nested query using your relationship:"
query GetPosts {
  posts {
    id
    title
    content
    user {
      id
      name
      age
    }
  }
}
```

```json title="Which should return a result like this:"
{
  "data": {
    "posts": [
      {
        "id": 1,
        "title": "My First Post",
        "content": "This is Alice's first post.",
        "user": {
          "id": 1,
          "name": "Alice",
          "age": 25
        }
      },
      {
        "id": 2,
        "title": "Another Post",
        "content": "Alice writes again!",
        "user": {
          "id": 1,
          "name": "Alice",
          "age": 25
        }
      },
      {
        "id": 3,
        "title": "Bob's Post",
        "content": "Bob shares his thoughts.",
        "user": {
          "id": 2,
          "name": "Bob",
          "age": 30
        }
      },
      {
        "id": 4,
        "title": "Hello World",
        "content": "Charlie joins the conversation.",
        "user": {
          "id": 3,
          "name": "Charlie",
          "age": 35
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Next steps

Congratulations on completing your first Hasura DDN project with PostgreSQL! 🎉

Here's what you just accomplished:

- You started with a fresh project and connected it to a local PostgreSQL database.
- You set up metadata to represent your tables and relationships, which acts as the blueprint for your API.
- Then, you created a build — essentially compiling everything into a ready-to-use API — and successfully ran your first
  GraphQL queries to fetch data.
- Along the way, you learned how to iterate on your schema and refresh your metadata to reflect changes.

Now, you're equipped to connect and expose your data, empowering you to iterate and scale with confidence. Great work!

Take a look at our [PostgreSQL docs](/connectors/postgresql/index.mdx) to learn more about how to use Hasura DDN with
PostgreSQL. Or, if you're ready, get started with adding [permissions](/supergraph-modeling/permissions.mdx) to control
access to your API.

Commit message:

Add show-resources to each connector
Adds show-resources command to each connector after introspection.

docs/how-to-build-with-ddn/with-postgresql.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: With PostgreSQL
description: "Learn the basics of Hasura DDN and how to get started with a Postgres database."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - graphql api
  - getting started
  - guide
  - postgres
---

import Prereqs from "@site/docs/_prereqs.mdx";

# Get Started with Hasura DDN and PostgreSQL

## Overview

This tutorial takes about fifteen minutes to complete. You'll learn how to:

- Set up a new Hasura DDN project
- Connect it to a PostgreSQL database
- Generate Hasura metadata
- Create a build
- Run your first query

Additionally, we'll familiarize you with the steps and workflows necessary to iterate on your API.

This tutorial assumes you're starting from scratch; a PostgreSQL docker image ships with the data connector you'll use
in just a bit to connect a locally-running database to Hasura, but you can easily follow the steps if you already have
data seeded; Hasura will never modify your source schema.

<Prereqs />

## Tutorial

### Step 1. Authenticate your CLI

```sh title="Before you can create a new Hasura DDN project, you need to authenticate your CLI:"
ddn auth login
```

This will launch a browser window prompting you to log in or sign up for Hasura DDN. After you log in, the CLI will
acknowledge your login, giving you access to Hasura Cloud resources.

### Step 2. Scaffold out a new local project

```sh title="Next, create a new local project:"
ddn supergraph init my-project && cd my-project
```

Once you move into this directory, you'll see your project scaffolded out for you. You can view the structure by either
running `ls` in your terminal, or by opening the directory in your preferred editor.

### Step 3. Initialize your PostgreSQL connector

```sh title="In your project directory, run:"
ddn connector init my_pg -i
```

From the dropdown, start typing `PostgreSQL` and hit enter to advance through all the options.

The CLI will output something similar to this:

```plaintext
HINT To access the local Postgres database:
- Run: docker compose -f app/connector/my_pg/compose.postgres-adminer.yaml up -d
- Open Adminer in your browser at http://localhost:5143 and create tables
- To connect to the database using other clients use postgresql://user:password@local.hasura.dev:8105/dev
```

### Step 4. Start the local PostgreSQL container and Adminer

```sh title="Use the hint from the CLI output:"
docker compose -f app/connector/my_pg/compose.postgres-adminer.yaml up -d
```

Run `docker ps` to see on which port Adminer is running. Then, you can then navigate to the address below to access it:

```plaintext
http://localhost:<ADMINER_PORT>
```

### Step 5. Create a table in your PostgreSQL database

```sql title="Next, via Adminer select SQL command from the left-hand nav, then enter the following:"
--- Create the table
CREATE TABLE users (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  name TEXT NOT NULL,
  age INT NOT NULL
);

--- Insert some data
INSERT INTO users (name, age) VALUES ('Alice', 25);
INSERT INTO users (name, age) VALUES ('Bob', 30);
INSERT INTO users (name, age) VALUES ('Charlie', 35);
```

You can verify this worked by using Adminer to query all records from the `users` table:

```sql
SELECT * FROM users;
```

### Step 6. Introspect your PostgreSQL database

```sh title="Next, use the CLI to introspect your PostgreSQL database:"
ddn connector introspect my_pg
```

After running this, you should see a representation of your database's schema in the
`app/connector/my_pg/configuration.json` file; you can view this using `cat` or open the file in your editor.

```sh title="Additionally, you can check which resources are available — and their status — at any point using the CLI:"
ddn connector show-resources my_pg
```

### Step 7. Add your model

```sh title="Now, track the table from your PostgreSQL database as a model in your DDN metadata:"
ddn models add my_pg users
```

Open the `app/metadata` directory and you'll find a newly-generated file: `Users.hml`. The DDN CLI will use this Hasura
Metadata Language file to represent the `users` table from PostgreSQL in your API as a
[model](/supergraph-modeling/models.mdx).

### Step 8. Create a new build

```sh title="To create a local build, run:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

The build is stored as a set of JSON files in `engine/build`.

### Step 9. Start your local services

```sh title="Start your local Hasura DDN Engine and PostgreSQL connector:"
ddn run docker-start
```

Your terminal will be taken over by logs for the different services.

### Step 10. Run your first query

```sh title="In a new terminal tab, open your local console:"
ddn console --local
```

```graphql title="In the GraphiQL explorer of the console, write this query:"
query {
  users {
    id
    name
    age
  }
}
```

```json title="You'll get the following response:"
{
  "data": {
    "users": [
      {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "Alice",
        "age": 25
      },
      {
        "id": 2,
        "name": "Bob",
        "age": 30
      },
      {
        "id": 3,
        "name": "Charlie",
        "age": 35
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Step 11. Iterate on your PostgreSQL schema

```sql title="Via Adminer, add a new table and insert some data to your PostgreSQL database:"
-- Create the posts table
CREATE TABLE posts (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  user_id INT NOT NULL REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE,
  title TEXT NOT NULL,
  content TEXT NOT NULL,
  created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
);

-- Insert some seed data
INSERT INTO posts (user_id, title, content) VALUES
  (1, 'My First Post', 'This is Alice''s first post.'),
  (1, 'Another Post', 'Alice writes again!'),
  (2, 'Bob''s Post', 'Bob shares his thoughts.'),
  (3, 'Hello World', 'Charlie joins the conversation.');
```

```sql title="Using Adminer, verify this by running the following query:"
-- Fetch all posts with user information
SELECT
  posts.id AS post_id,
  posts.title,
  posts.content,
  posts.created_at,
  users.name AS author
FROM
  posts
JOIN
  users ON posts.user_id = users.id;
```

You should see a list of posts returned with the author's information joined from the `users` table

### Step 12. Refresh your metadata and rebuild your project

:::tip

The following steps are necessary each time you make changes to your **source** schema. This includes, adding,
modifying, or dropping tables.

:::

#### Step 12.1. Re-introspect your data source

```sh title="Run the introspection command again:"
ddn connector introspect my_pg
```

In `app/connector/my_pg/configuration.json`, you'll see schema updated to include operations for the `posts` table. In
`app/metadata/my_pg.hml`, you'll see `posts` present in the metadata as well.

#### Step 12.2. Update your metadata

```sh title="Add the posts model:"
ddn model add my_pg "posts"
```

#### Step 12.3. Create a new build

```sh title="Next, create a new build:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

#### Step 12.4. Restart your services

```sh title="Bring down the servies by pressing CTRL+C and start them back up:"
ddn run docker-start
```

### Step 13. Query your new build

```graphql title="Head back to your console and query the posts model:"
query GetPosts {
  posts {
    id
    title
    content
  }
}
```

```json title="You'll get a response like this:"
{
  "data": {
    "posts": [
      {
        "id": 1,
        "title": "My First Post",
        "content": "This is Alice's first post."
      },
      {
        "id": 2,
        "title": "Another Post",
        "content": "Alice writes again!"
      },
      {
        "id": 3,
        "title": "Bob's Post",
        "content": "Bob shares his thoughts."
      },
      {
        "id": 4,
        "title": "Hello World",
        "content": "Charlie joins the conversation."
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Step 14. Create a relationship

```sh title="Since there's already a foreign key on the posts table in PostgreSQL, we can easily add the relationship:"
ddn relationship add my_pg "posts"
```

You'll see a new metadata object added to the `app/metadata/posts.hml` file of kind `Relationship` explaining the
relationship between `posts` and `users`.

### Step 15. Rebuild your project

```sh title="As your metadata has changed, create a new build:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

```sh title="Bring down the servies by pressing CTRL+C and start them back up:"
ddn run docker-start
```

### Step 16. Query using your relationship

```graphql title="Now, execute a nested query using your relationship:"
query GetPosts {
  posts {
    id
    title
    content
    user {
      id
      name
      age
    }
  }
}
```

```json title="Which should return a result like this:"
{
  "data": {
    "posts": [
      {
        "id": 1,
        "title": "My First Post",
        "content": "This is Alice's first post.",
        "user": {
          "id": 1,
          "name": "Alice",
          "age": 25
        }
      },
      {
        "id": 2,
        "title": "Another Post",
        "content": "Alice writes again!",
        "user": {
          "id": 1,
          "name": "Alice",
          "age": 25
        }
      },
      {
        "id": 3,
        "title": "Bob's Post",
        "content": "Bob shares his thoughts.",
        "user": {
          "id": 2,
          "name": "Bob",
          "age": 30
        }
      },
      {
        "id": 4,
        "title": "Hello World",
        "content": "Charlie joins the conversation.",
        "user": {
          "id": 3,
          "name": "Charlie",
          "age": 35
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Next steps

Congratulations on completing your first Hasura DDN project with PostgreSQL! 🎉

Here's what you just accomplished:

- You started with a fresh project and connected it to a local PostgreSQL database.
- You set up metadata to represent your tables and relationships, which acts as the blueprint for your API.
- Then, you created a build — essentially compiling everything into a ready-to-use API — and successfully ran your first
  GraphQL queries to fetch data.
- Along the way, you learned how to iterate on your schema and refresh your metadata to reflect changes.

Now, you're equipped to connect and expose your data, empowering you to iterate and scale with confidence. Great work!

Take a look at our [PostgreSQL docs](/connectors/postgresql/index.mdx) to learn more about how to use Hasura DDN with
PostgreSQL. Or, if you're ready, get started with adding [permissions](/supergraph-modeling/permissions.mdx) to control
access to your API.
