docs/how-to-build-with-ddn/with-clickhouse.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 5
sidebar_label: With ClickHouse
description: "Learn the basics of Hasura DDN and how to get started with a ClickHouse instance."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - graphql api
  - getting started
  - guide
  - clickhouse
---

import Prereqs from "@site/docs/_prereqs.mdx";

# Get Started with Hasura DDN and ClickHouse

## Overview

This tutorial takes about fifteen minutes to complete. You'll learn how to:

- Set up a new Hasura DDN project
- Connect it to a ClickHouse instance
- Generate Hasura metadata
- Create a build
- Run your first query

Additionally, we'll familiarize you with the steps and workflows necessary to iterate on your API.

This tutorial assumes you're starting from scratch. We'll use a locally running ClickHouse instance via Docker and
connect it to Hasura, but you can easily follow the steps if you already have data seeded or are using ClickHouse's
hosted service; Hasura will never modify your source schema.

<Prereqs />

## Tutorial

### Step 1. Authenticate your CLI

```sh title="Before you can create a new Hasura DDN project, you need to authenticate your CLI:"
ddn auth login
```

This will launch a browser window prompting you to log in or sign up for Hasura DDN. After you log in, the CLI will
acknowledge your login, giving you access to Hasura Cloud resources.

### Step 2. Scaffold out a new local project

```sh title="Next, create a new local project:"
ddn supergraph init my-project && cd my-project
```

Once you move into this directory, you'll see your project scaffolded out for you. You can view the structure by either
running `ls` in your terminal, or by opening the directory in your preferred editor.

### Step 3. Initialize your ClickHouse connector

```sh title="In your project directory, run:"
ddn connector init my_ch -i
```

From the dropdown, start typing `clickhouse` and hit enter to accept the default port. Then, provide the following
values:

**Connection string**

```plaintext
http://local.hasura.dev:8123
```

**Username**

```plaintext
default_user
```

**Password**

```plaintext
default_password
```

### Step 4. Start the local ClickHouse container

```sh title="Begin by creating a compose file for the ClickHouse service:"
touch app/connector/my_ch/compose.clickhouse.yaml
```

```yaml title="Then, open the file and add the following:"
services:
  clickhouse:
    image: clickhouse/clickhouse-server
    container_name: clickhouse-server
    ports:
      - "8123:8123"
      - "9000:9000"
    volumes:
      - ./clickhouse-data:/var/lib/clickhouse
    environment:
      CLICKHOUSE_USER: "default_user"
      CLICKHOUSE_PASSWORD: "default_password"
      CLICKHOUSE_DB: "default"
```

```sh title="Run the container:"
docker compose -f app/connector/my_ch/compose.clickhouse.yaml up -d
```

```sh title="Send a curl request to create the table in the database:"
curl -u default_user:default_password -X POST \
    --data "CREATE TABLE users (user_id UInt32, name String, age UInt8) ENGINE = MergeTree() ORDER BY user_id;" \
    http://localhost:8123
```

```sh title="Then, seed the table:"
curl -u default_user:default_password -X POST \
    --data "INSERT INTO users (user_id, name, age) VALUES (1, 'Alice', 25), (2, 'Bob', 30), (3, 'Charlie', 35);" \
    http://localhost:8123
```

```sh title="You can verify this by running:"
curl -u default_user:default_password -X POST \
    --data "SELECT * FROM users;" \
    http://localhost:8123
```

You should see a list of users returned.

### Step 5. Introspect your ClickHouse database

```sh title="Next, use the CLI to introspect your ClickHouse database:"
ddn connector introspect my_ch
```

After running this, you should see a representation of your database's schema in the
`app/connector/my_ch/configuration.json` file; you can view this using `cat` or open the file in your editor.

### Step 6. Add your model

```sh title="Now, track the table from your ClickHouse database as a model in your DDN metadata:"
ddn models add my_ch users
```

Open the `app/metadata` directory and you'll find a newly-generated file: `Users.hml`. The DDN CLI will use this Hasura
Metadata Language file to represent the `users` table from ClickHouse in your API as a
[model](/supergraph-modeling/models.mdx).

### Step 7. Create a new build

```sh title="To create a local build, run:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

The build is stored as a set of JSON files in `engine/build`.

### Step 8. Start your local services

```sh title="Start your local Hasura DDN Engine and ClickHouse connector:"
ddn run docker-start
```

Your terminal will be taken over by logs for the different services.

### Step 9. Run your first query

```sh title="In a new terminal tab, open your local console:"
ddn console --local
```

```graphql title="In the GraphiQL explorer of the console, write this query:"
query {
  users {
    userId
    name
    age
  }
}
```

```json title="You'll get the following response:"
{
  "data": {
    "users": [
      {
        "userId": 1,
        "name": "Alice",
        "age": 25
      },
      {
        "userId": 2,
        "name": "Bob",
        "age": 30
      },
      {
        "userId": 3,
        "name": "Charlie",
        "age": 35
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Step 10. Iterate on your ClickHouse schema

```sh title="Let's add a new table for posts:"
curl -u default_user:default_password -X POST \
    --data "CREATE TABLE posts (
        user_id UInt32,
        title String,
        content String
    ) ENGINE = MergeTree()
    ORDER BY user_id;" \
    http://localhost:8123
```

```sh title="Then, seed it:"
curl -u default_user:default_password -X POST \
    --data "INSERT INTO posts (user_id, title, content) VALUES
    (1, 'My First Post', 'This is Alice''s first post.'),
    (1, 'Another Post', 'Alice writes again!'),
    (2, 'Bob''s Post', 'Bob shares his thoughts.'),
    (3, 'Hello World', 'Charlie joins the conversation.');" \
    http://localhost:8123
```

```sh title="Finally, we can check the posts were generated:"
curl -u default_user:default_password -X POST \
    --data "SELECT * FROM posts;" \
    http://localhost:8123
```

### Step 11. Refresh your metadata and rebuild your project

:::tip

The following steps are necessary each time you make changes to your **source** schema. This includes, adding,
modifying, or dropping tables.

:::

#### Step 11.1. Re-introspect your data source

```sh title="Run the introspection command again:"
ddn connector introspect my_ch
```

In `app/connector/my_ch/configuration.json`, you'll see schema updated to include operations for the `posts` table. In
`app/metadata/my_ch.hml`, you'll see `posts` present in the metadata as well.

#### Step 11.2. Update your metadata

```sh title="Add the posts model:"
ddn model add my_ch posts
```

#### Step 11.3. Kill your services

Bring down the services by pressing `CTRL+C` in the terminal tab logging their activity.

#### Step 11.4. Create a new build

```sh title="Next, create a new build:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

#### Step 11.5 Restart your services

```sh title="Bring everything back up:"
ddn run docker-start
```

### Step 12. Query your new build

```graphql title="Head back to your console and query the posts model:"
query GetPosts {
  posts {
    userId
    title
    content
  }
}
```

```json title="You'll get a response like this:"
{
  "data": {
    "posts": [
      {
        "userId": 1,
        "title": "My First Post",
        "content": "This is Alice's first post."
      },
      {
        "userId": 1,
        "title": "Another Post",
        "content": "Alice writes again!"
      },
      {
        "userId": 2,
        "title": "Bob's Post",
        "content": "Bob shares his thoughts."
      },
      {
        "userId": 3,
        "title": "Hello World",
        "content": "Charlie joins the conversation."
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Step 13. Create a relationship

```yaml title="Open the Posts.hml file and add the following to the end:"
---
kind: Relationship
version: v1
definition:
  name: user
  sourceType: Posts
  target:
    model:
      name: Users
      relationshipType: Object
  mapping:
    - source:
        fieldPath:
          - fieldName: userId
      target:
        modelField:
          - fieldName: userId
```

:::tip LSP-Assisted authoring is available

We've created an extension for VS Code that leverages LSP to make authoring these metadata objects easier. Check it out
[here](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=HasuraHQ.hasura).

:::

### Step 14. Rebuild your project

Bring down the services by pressing `CTRL+C` in the terminal tab logging their activity.

```sh title="As your metadata has changed, create a new build:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

```sh title="Bring everything back up:"
ddn run docker-start
```

### Step 15. Query using your relationship

```graphql title="Now, execute a nested query using your relationship:"
query GetPosts {
  posts {
    title
    content
    user {
      userId
      name
      age
    }
  }
}
```

```json title="Which should return a result like this:"
{
  "data": {
    "posts": [
      {
        "title": "My First Post",
        "content": "This is Alice's first post.",
        "user": {
          "userId": 1,
          "name": "Alice",
          "age": 25
        }
      },
      {
        "title": "Another Post",
        "content": "Alice writes again!",
        "user": {
          "userId": 1,
          "name": "Alice",
          "age": 25
        }
      },
      {
        "title": "Bob's Post",
        "content": "Bob shares his thoughts.",
        "user": {
          "userId": 2,
          "name": "Bob",
          "age": 30
        }
      },
      {
        "title": "Hello World",
        "content": "Charlie joins the conversation.",
        "user": {
          "userId": 3,
          "name": "Charlie",
          "age": 35
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Next steps

Congratulations on completing your first Hasura DDN project with ClickHouse! 🎉

Here's what you just accomplished:

- You started with a fresh project and connected it to a local ClickHouse database.
- You set up metadata to represent your tables and relationships, which acts as the blueprint for your API.
- Then, you created a build — essentially compiling everything into a ready-to-use API — and successfully ran your first
  GraphQL queries to fetch data.
- Along the way, you learned how to iterate on your schema and refresh your metadata to reflect changes.

Now, you're equipped to connect and expose your data, empowering you to iterate and scale with confidence. Great work!

Take a look at our [ClickHouse docs](/connectors/clickhouse/index.mdx) to learn more about how to use Hasura DDN with
ClickHouse. Or, if you're ready, get started with adding [permissions](/supergraph-modeling/permissions.mdx) to control
access to your API.

Commit message:

Add show-resources to each connector
Adds show-resources command to each connector after introspection.

docs/how-to-build-with-ddn/with-clickhouse.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 5
sidebar_label: With ClickHouse
description: "Learn the basics of Hasura DDN and how to get started with a ClickHouse instance."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - graphql api
  - getting started
  - guide
  - clickhouse
---

import Prereqs from "@site/docs/_prereqs.mdx";

# Get Started with Hasura DDN and ClickHouse

## Overview

This tutorial takes about fifteen minutes to complete. You'll learn how to:

- Set up a new Hasura DDN project
- Connect it to a ClickHouse instance
- Generate Hasura metadata
- Create a build
- Run your first query

Additionally, we'll familiarize you with the steps and workflows necessary to iterate on your API.

This tutorial assumes you're starting from scratch. We'll use a locally running ClickHouse instance via Docker and
connect it to Hasura, but you can easily follow the steps if you already have data seeded or are using ClickHouse's
hosted service; Hasura will never modify your source schema.

<Prereqs />

## Tutorial

### Step 1. Authenticate your CLI

```sh title="Before you can create a new Hasura DDN project, you need to authenticate your CLI:"
ddn auth login
```

This will launch a browser window prompting you to log in or sign up for Hasura DDN. After you log in, the CLI will
acknowledge your login, giving you access to Hasura Cloud resources.

### Step 2. Scaffold out a new local project

```sh title="Next, create a new local project:"
ddn supergraph init my-project && cd my-project
```

Once you move into this directory, you'll see your project scaffolded out for you. You can view the structure by either
running `ls` in your terminal, or by opening the directory in your preferred editor.

### Step 3. Initialize your ClickHouse connector

```sh title="In your project directory, run:"
ddn connector init my_ch -i
```

From the dropdown, start typing `clickhouse` and hit enter to accept the default port. Then, provide the following
values:

**Connection string**

```plaintext
http://local.hasura.dev:8123
```

**Username**

```plaintext
default_user
```

**Password**

```plaintext
default_password
```

### Step 4. Start the local ClickHouse container

```sh title="Begin by creating a compose file for the ClickHouse service:"
touch app/connector/my_ch/compose.clickhouse.yaml
```

```yaml title="Then, open the file and add the following:"
services:
  clickhouse:
    image: clickhouse/clickhouse-server
    container_name: clickhouse-server
    ports:
      - "8123:8123"
      - "9000:9000"
    volumes:
      - ./clickhouse-data:/var/lib/clickhouse
    environment:
      CLICKHOUSE_USER: "default_user"
      CLICKHOUSE_PASSWORD: "default_password"
      CLICKHOUSE_DB: "default"
```

```sh title="Run the container:"
docker compose -f app/connector/my_ch/compose.clickhouse.yaml up -d
```

```sh title="Send a curl request to create the table in the database:"
curl -u default_user:default_password -X POST \
    --data "CREATE TABLE users (user_id UInt32, name String, age UInt8) ENGINE = MergeTree() ORDER BY user_id;" \
    http://localhost:8123
```

```sh title="Then, seed the table:"
curl -u default_user:default_password -X POST \
    --data "INSERT INTO users (user_id, name, age) VALUES (1, 'Alice', 25), (2, 'Bob', 30), (3, 'Charlie', 35);" \
    http://localhost:8123
```

```sh title="You can verify this by running:"
curl -u default_user:default_password -X POST \
    --data "SELECT * FROM users;" \
    http://localhost:8123
```

You should see a list of users returned.

### Step 5. Introspect your ClickHouse database

```sh title="Next, use the CLI to introspect your ClickHouse database:"
ddn connector introspect my_ch
```

After running this, you should see a representation of your database's schema in the
`app/connector/my_ch/configuration.json` file; you can view this using `cat` or open the file in your editor.

```sh title="Additionally, you can check which resources are available — and their status — at any point using the CLI:"
ddn connector show-resources my_ch
```

### Step 6. Add your model

```sh title="Now, track the table from your ClickHouse database as a model in your DDN metadata:"
ddn models add my_ch users
```

Open the `app/metadata` directory and you'll find a newly-generated file: `Users.hml`. The DDN CLI will use this Hasura
Metadata Language file to represent the `users` table from ClickHouse in your API as a
[model](/supergraph-modeling/models.mdx).

### Step 7. Create a new build

```sh title="To create a local build, run:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

The build is stored as a set of JSON files in `engine/build`.

### Step 8. Start your local services

```sh title="Start your local Hasura DDN Engine and ClickHouse connector:"
ddn run docker-start
```

Your terminal will be taken over by logs for the different services.

### Step 9. Run your first query

```sh title="In a new terminal tab, open your local console:"
ddn console --local
```

```graphql title="In the GraphiQL explorer of the console, write this query:"
query {
  users {
    userId
    name
    age
  }
}
```

```json title="You'll get the following response:"
{
  "data": {
    "users": [
      {
        "userId": 1,
        "name": "Alice",
        "age": 25
      },
      {
        "userId": 2,
        "name": "Bob",
        "age": 30
      },
      {
        "userId": 3,
        "name": "Charlie",
        "age": 35
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Step 10. Iterate on your ClickHouse schema

```sh title="Let's add a new table for posts:"
curl -u default_user:default_password -X POST \
    --data "CREATE TABLE posts (
        user_id UInt32,
        title String,
        content String
    ) ENGINE = MergeTree()
    ORDER BY user_id;" \
    http://localhost:8123
```

```sh title="Then, seed it:"
curl -u default_user:default_password -X POST \
    --data "INSERT INTO posts (user_id, title, content) VALUES
    (1, 'My First Post', 'This is Alice''s first post.'),
    (1, 'Another Post', 'Alice writes again!'),
    (2, 'Bob''s Post', 'Bob shares his thoughts.'),
    (3, 'Hello World', 'Charlie joins the conversation.');" \
    http://localhost:8123
```

```sh title="Finally, we can check the posts were generated:"
curl -u default_user:default_password -X POST \
    --data "SELECT * FROM posts;" \
    http://localhost:8123
```

### Step 11. Refresh your metadata and rebuild your project

:::tip

The following steps are necessary each time you make changes to your **source** schema. This includes, adding,
modifying, or dropping tables.

:::

#### Step 11.1. Re-introspect your data source

```sh title="Run the introspection command again:"
ddn connector introspect my_ch
```

In `app/connector/my_ch/configuration.json`, you'll see schema updated to include operations for the `posts` table. In
`app/metadata/my_ch.hml`, you'll see `posts` present in the metadata as well.

#### Step 11.2. Update your metadata

```sh title="Add the posts model:"
ddn model add my_ch posts
```

#### Step 11.3. Kill your services

Bring down the services by pressing `CTRL+C` in the terminal tab logging their activity.

#### Step 11.4. Create a new build

```sh title="Next, create a new build:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

#### Step 11.5 Restart your services

```sh title="Bring everything back up:"
ddn run docker-start
```

### Step 12. Query your new build

```graphql title="Head back to your console and query the posts model:"
query GetPosts {
  posts {
    userId
    title
    content
  }
}
```

```json title="You'll get a response like this:"
{
  "data": {
    "posts": [
      {
        "userId": 1,
        "title": "My First Post",
        "content": "This is Alice's first post."
      },
      {
        "userId": 1,
        "title": "Another Post",
        "content": "Alice writes again!"
      },
      {
        "userId": 2,
        "title": "Bob's Post",
        "content": "Bob shares his thoughts."
      },
      {
        "userId": 3,
        "title": "Hello World",
        "content": "Charlie joins the conversation."
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Step 13. Create a relationship

```yaml title="Open the Posts.hml file and add the following to the end:"
---
kind: Relationship
version: v1
definition:
  name: user
  sourceType: Posts
  target:
    model:
      name: Users
      relationshipType: Object
  mapping:
    - source:
        fieldPath:
          - fieldName: userId
      target:
        modelField:
          - fieldName: userId
```

:::tip LSP-Assisted authoring is available

We've created an extension for VS Code that leverages LSP to make authoring these metadata objects easier. Check it out
[here](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=HasuraHQ.hasura).

:::

### Step 14. Rebuild your project

Bring down the services by pressing `CTRL+C` in the terminal tab logging their activity.

```sh title="As your metadata has changed, create a new build:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

```sh title="Bring everything back up:"
ddn run docker-start
```

### Step 15. Query using your relationship

```graphql title="Now, execute a nested query using your relationship:"
query GetPosts {
  posts {
    title
    content
    user {
      userId
      name
      age
    }
  }
}
```

```json title="Which should return a result like this:"
{
  "data": {
    "posts": [
      {
        "title": "My First Post",
        "content": "This is Alice's first post.",
        "user": {
          "userId": 1,
          "name": "Alice",
          "age": 25
        }
      },
      {
        "title": "Another Post",
        "content": "Alice writes again!",
        "user": {
          "userId": 1,
          "name": "Alice",
          "age": 25
        }
      },
      {
        "title": "Bob's Post",
        "content": "Bob shares his thoughts.",
        "user": {
          "userId": 2,
          "name": "Bob",
          "age": 30
        }
      },
      {
        "title": "Hello World",
        "content": "Charlie joins the conversation.",
        "user": {
          "userId": 3,
          "name": "Charlie",
          "age": 35
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Next steps

Congratulations on completing your first Hasura DDN project with ClickHouse! 🎉

Here's what you just accomplished:

- You started with a fresh project and connected it to a local ClickHouse database.
- You set up metadata to represent your tables and relationships, which acts as the blueprint for your API.
- Then, you created a build — essentially compiling everything into a ready-to-use API — and successfully ran your first
  GraphQL queries to fetch data.
- Along the way, you learned how to iterate on your schema and refresh your metadata to reflect changes.

Now, you're equipped to connect and expose your data, empowering you to iterate and scale with confidence. Great work!

Take a look at our [ClickHouse docs](/connectors/clickhouse/index.mdx) to learn more about how to use Hasura DDN with
ClickHouse. Or, if you're ready, get started with adding [permissions](/supergraph-modeling/permissions.mdx) to control
access to your API.
