docs/reference/metadata-reference/compatibility-config.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 15
sidebar_label: CompatibilityConfig
description:
  "CompatibilityConfig is a metadata object that defines the compatibility configuration of the Hasura metadata."
keywords:
  - compatibility config
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

# Compatibility Config

## Introduction

The CompatibilityConfig object is a metadata object that defines the compatibility configuration of the Hasura metadata.

## How CompatibilityConfig works

### Lifecycle

By default, all projects are created with a default CompatibilityConfig object in the **globals** subgraph. It can be
defined in any subgraph of your choice, but only once across your supergraph.

The `date` field in the CompatibilityConfig object specifies the date after which any new backwards-incompatible changes
made to Hasura DDN will be disabled and will not impact the Hasura project. For example, if your project has its `date`
set to `2024-10-16`, then any new features added after that date that would result in breaking changes to your project
will be disabled. To enable these features, simply increase your `date` to a newer date.

### Compatibility dates and breaking changes

The following is a list of dates at which backwards-incompatible changes were added to Hasura DDN. Projects with
CompatibilityConfig `date`s prior to these dates will have these features disabled.

#### 2025-03-20 

##### Disallow duplicate model permissions roles

A build error is now raised if the same role is defined more than once in a ModelPermissions object.

#### 2025-03-12

##### Disallow procedure command relationships

A build error is now raised if a relationship is defined between an object type and a procedure command. Procedure
commands cannot be used in relationships. This prevents navigation of relationships from accidentally causing 
side-effects, as procedures can modify data.

#### 2025-03-11

##### Validate object type field types in data connector type mappings

A build error is now raised when there is a mismatch between the field types defined in an object type and the
corresponding field types in the data connector type mapping. This ensures type safety and prevents runtime errors due
to incompatible type mappings.

For example, if a PostgreSQL data connector defines a column as `INTEGER`, mapping it to an object type field defined as
`String` would raise an error:

```json
{
  "kind": "ObjectType",
  "version": "v1",
  "definition": {
    "name": "User",
    "fields": [
      {
        "name": "age",
        "type": "String!" // Error: PostgreSQL column is INTEGER but object type defines it as String
      }
    ],
    "dataConnectorTypeMapping": [
      {
        "dataConnectorName": "postgres",
        "dataConnectorObjectType": "users",
        "fieldMapping": {
          "age": {
            "column": {
              "name": "age"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

##### Validate argument type mappings

A build error is now raised when argument mapping types are invalid or incompatible with their corresponding data
connector types. This validation ensures that arguments passed to commands and models are properly typed and match the
expected types in the data connector.

For example, if a PostgreSQL function expects an `INTEGER` argument, mapping it to an argument defined as `String` would
raise an error:

```json
{
  "kind": "Command",
  "version": "v1",
  "definition": {
    "name": "get_users_by_age",
    "arguments": [
      {
        "name": "age",
        "type": "String!" // Error: PostgreSQL function expects INTEGER but argument is defined as String
      }
    ],
    "source": {
      "dataConnectorName": "postgres",
      "dataConnectorCommand": {
        "function": "get_users_by_age"
      },
      "argumentMapping": {
        "age": "age"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

##### Disallow invalid headers in AuthConfig

When using webhook mode in AuthConfig, Hasura DDN now validates all specified headers. Any invalid headers will trigger
a build error, whereas previously they were silently discarded.

##### Require `aud` claim validation in JWTs

If a JWT contains an `aud` claim, Hasura DDN will validate it against the
[`audience` field in the AuthConfig](/auth/jwt/jwt-configuration.mdx#audience). Previously this was optional, but now if
the JWT contains an `aud` claim, `audience` is must be configured in the AuthConfig. If the JWT contains an `aud` claim
and `audience` is not configured, the JWT will be rejected and authentication will fail.

This protects customers from accidentally misconfiguring their `audience` and exposing their API to unauthorized users.

#### 2025-02-27

##### Require valid command output type

A build error is now raised when a command's output type references a type that doesn't exist in the metadata.
Previously, invalid output types might have been allowed but could lead to runtime errors. This ensures that all
commands have valid and well-defined output types that can be properly handled by the system.

#### 2025-02-20

##### Disallow unknown values in arguments

Previously if an argument preset was provided via a session variable, and contained unknown fields, the engine would
ignore those fields and pass them on to the data connector.

For an object type with `name` and `age` fields, an input like this will throw an error, saying that we don't know
anything about the `not_in_our_object_type` field.

```JSON
{
  "name": "Bruce",
  "age": 30,
  "not_in_our_object_type": "bad value"
}
```

##### Disallow recursive object types

A build error is now raised when object types contain infinite recursion through non-nullable fields. This prevents
creating object type structures that could lead to infinite loops during query execution. For example:

```json
{
  "kind": "ObjectType",
  "version": "v1",
  "definition": {
    "name": "Person",
    "fields": [
      {
        "name": "id",
        "type": "Int!"
      },
      {
        "name": "name",
        "type": "String!"
      },
      {
        "name": "bestFriend",
        "type": "Friend!"  // Non-nullable reference to Friend type
      }
    ]
  }
},
{
  "kind": "ObjectType",
  "version": "v1",
  "definition": {
    "name": "Friend",
    "fields": [
      {
        "name": "id",
        "type": "Int!"
      },
      {
        "name": "name",
        "type": "String!"
      },
      {
        "name": "bestFriend",
        "type": "Person!"  // Non-nullable reference back to Person type
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

This creates an infinite recursion because `Person` must have a `Friend`, who must have a `Person`, who must have a
`Friend`, and so on infinitely. This is now disallowed. To fix this, make at least one of the references nullable:

```json
{
  "kind": "ObjectType",
  "version": "v1",
  "definition": {
    "name": "Person",
    "fields": [
      {
        "name": "id",
        "type": "Int!"
      },
      {
        "name": "name",
        "type": "String!"
      },
      {
        "name": "bestFriend",
        "type": "Friend" // Now nullable, breaking the infinite recursion
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

This ensures that all object type relationships have a clear termination point.

#### 2025-02-08

##### Disallow unsupported orderable relationships

Build errors are now raised if unsupported orderable relationships are defined on OrderByExpressions. Specifically:

- If the relationship is a remote relationship
- If the data connector does not support performing relationships
- If the target Model or Command of the relationship does not have a source defined

##### Disallow relationships where the data connector does not support relationships or remote relationships

A build error is now raised if a Relationship is defined between an ObjectType and a Model or Command that are sourced
from the same data connector, but that data connector does not support performing relationships or support remote
relationships.

#### 2025-02-04

##### Command and argument preset typechecking

A build error is now raised if an argument preset defined in CommandPermissions or ModelPermissions or a field preset in
TypePermissions specifies a literal value that does not match the type of the argument or field it is supposed to be
presetting.

##### Disallow scalar type mismatch in object type fields

A build error is now raised if an ObjectType's field's scalar type does not match the scalar type of the underlying data
connector's object type field. The field's specified scalar type must have a DataConnectorScalarRepresentation defined
that specifies it as the representation for the data connector's scalar type.

##### Disallow unknown ObjectType field types

A build error is now raised if an ObjectType's field's type is an unknown type.

##### Disallow orderable fields that have field arguments

A build error is now raised if an orderable field on an OrderByExpression has field arguments. This scenario is not
supported.

#### 2025-01-25

##### Disallow duplicate scalar type aggregate functions

A build error is now raised if a data connector scalar type has multiple aggregate functions of the same type (for
example, two sum functions for the same scalar type). This ensures that there is no ambiguity when choosing an aggregate
function for a particular purpose (for example, performing a sum aggregate).

#### 2025-01-07

##### Disallow duplicate operator definitions for scalar type

A build error is now raised when a scalar type has multiple operator definitions with the same name. For example, if you
have a custom scalar type and define multiple operators with the same name in its boolean expression configuration, the
build will fail. This ensures that operator definitions for scalar types are unique and prevents ambiguity in boolean
expressions.

##### Disallow multidimensional arrays in boolean expressions

A build error is now raised when multidimensional arrays (arrays of arrays) are used in boolean expressions. This
restriction applies to both array comparison operators and array relationship fields within boolean expressions.
Previously, such configurations might have been allowed but could lead to runtime errors or undefined behavior. This
change ensures that only single-dimensional arrays can be used in boolean expressions, making the behavior more
predictable and preventing potential runtime issues.

##### Disallow duplicate names across types and expressions

A build error is now raised when:

- Duplicate names exist within a subgraph for the following definitions:

  - [`BooleanExpressionType`](/reference/metadata-reference/boolean-expressions.mdx#booleanexpressiontype-booleanexpressiontype)
  - [`OrderByExpression`](/reference/metadata-reference/orderby-expressions.mdx)

- Type name conflicts exist within a subgraph across the following type definitions:
  - [`ScalarType`](/reference/metadata-reference/types.mdx#scalartype)
  - [`ObjectType`](/reference/metadata-reference/types.mdx#objecttype)
  - [`BooleanExpressionType`](/reference/metadata-reference/boolean-expressions.mdx#booleanexpressiontype-booleanexpressiontype)

#### 2024-12-18

##### Disallow non-scalar fields in Model v1 `orderableFields`

`orderableFields` in `Model` v1 now only allows fields of scalar types. Previously this was allowed, but queries that
tried to order against the non-scalar fields would fail at runtime or produce unexpected results. To order over nested
object fields, upgrade to `Model` v2 and use `OrderByExpression`s instead.

##### Disallow nested fields and nested relationships in OrderByExpressions when the data connector does not support them

Previously `OrderByExpression`s that incorporated nested fields and nested relationships were allowed to be used with
`Model`s that sourced from data connectors that did not support ordering by nested fields and nested relationships. Such
a configuration will now result in a build error.

##### Prevent usage of array relationships in OrderByExpressions

Previously `OrderByExpression`s could specify array relationships in `orderableRelationships`. This was incorrect
behaviour, as only object relationships can be ordered over, and now results in a build error.

#### 2024-12-10

##### Disallow multiple fields on input objects in GraphQL in `order_by`

GraphQL queries with `order_by` arguments that contain multiple properties set on one input object now properly return
an error. For example `order_by: { location: { city: Asc, country: Asc } }` is no longer allowed. This is because the
order of input object fields in GraphQL is not defined, so it is unclear whether ordering should be first by city or
first by country. Instead, write this query like so:
`order_by: [{ location: { city: Asc } }, { location: { country: Asc } }]`.

Additionally, ordering by nested fields using a nested array is no longer allowed (for example:
`order_by: { location: [{ city: Asc }, { country: Asc }] }`). Instead, write this query like so:
`order_by: [{ location: { city: Asc } }, { location: { country: Asc } }]`.

#### 2024-12-05

##### Prevent conflicts between boolean expression fields in GraphQL

Conflicts between fields on boolean expression types that have the same name (such as conflicts between fields and
logical operators) are now detected and a build error is raised.

#### 2024-11-26

##### Logical operators in scalar boolean expression types

Previously, if logical operators (ie. `_and`, `_or`, `_not`) were enabled in scalar `BooleanExpressionType`s, they would
_not_ appear in the GraphQL API. Now, if they are enabled, they will correctly appear in the GraphQL API as configured.

#### 2024-11-18

##### Disallow object boolean expression type

A build error is now raised if `ObjectBooleanExpressionType` is used to define a boolean expression. To resolve this,
you can upgrade all object boolean expression types in your metadata by running the following DDN codemod command.

```bash
ddn codemod upgrade-object-boolean-expression-types
```

Learn more about the [command here](/reference/cli/commands/ddn_codemod_upgrade-object-boolean-expression-types.mdx).

#### 2024-11-15

##### Require unique model GraphQL names

A build error is now raised if a root field defined in a `Model`'s GraphQL config conflicts with an existing root field.
Previously, the conflicting root field was silently excluded from the GraphQL schema.

##### Require a valid NDC version in data connector capabilities

A build error is now raised when there is an invalid version in the capabilities of a data connector's schema. To fix
the error, please consider upgrading to the latest version of the data connector and running `ddn connector introspect`
to correct the invalid version. Prior to this change, it was assumed that the data connector with the invalid version
was an NDC v0.1.x connector.

#### 2024-11-13

##### Allow resolving boolean expression fields without GraphQL config

Previously, comparable fields, relationships, and aggregate fields of a `BooleanExpressionType` were validated only if
the `graphql` field was configured in the metadata. These fields are now validated regardless of whether the `graphql`
configuration is specified.

#### 2024-10-31

##### Disallow comparisons against scalar array fields in predicates

A build error is now raised if a scalar array field is configured in a BooleanExpressionType as a comparable field.
Comparisons against scalar array fields are not supported as at this compatibility date.

#### 2024-10-16

##### Enable JSON session variable support

Session variables provided in JWT claims, webhook responses or in the NoAuth settings can now be any JSON value, instead
of just a string. This enable scenarios such as being able to put lists of values into a single session variable.
However, this now means that if you use the session variable in a comparison against a field, the field's type must
match the type of the session variable. For example, if you are comparing against an integer field, your session
variable must be set as a JSON number and not a string.

#### 2024-10-07

##### Require unique command GraphQL names

A build error is now raised when there is a conflict with a GraphQL root field or GraphQL type name that is already in
use. Before this, the command would be silently dropped from the GraphQL schema.

#### 2024-09-26

##### Propagate boolean expression deprecation status

The `deprecated` status for relationship fields is now propagated to boolean expressions that use them. The default
GraphQL introspection behavior is to hide such fields from the schema, so this behavior is considered a breaking change.

##### Disallow scalar types names conflicting with inbuilt types

A build error is now raised when a `ScalarType` metadata type is defined that conflicts with any of the built-in type
names (`ID`, `Int`, `String`, `Boolean`, `Float`).

#### 2024-09-18

##### Require nested array filtering capability

A build error is now raised when a nested array field is defined on an ObjectType used in a Model whose underlying data
connector does not have the `query.exists.nested_collections` capability defined.

#### 2024-09-03

##### Enable relationships in predicates to be used even if the data connector does not support it

Previously, only data connectors that supported the `relationships.relation_comparisons` capability supported
relationships in predicates. This change allows you to use relationships in boolean expressions even if the data
connector lacks support. When the capability is available, relationship predicates are resolved directly within the
native data connector for more efficient processing. If not, the predicates are handled at the API layer.

#### 2024-06-30

##### Require GraphQL Config

A build error is now raised if a [GraphQLConfig](reference/metadata-reference/graphql-config.mdx) is not provided in the
project metadata.

---

## Metadata structure


### v2_CompatibilityConfig {#v2_compatibilityconfig-v2_compatibilityconfig}

The compatibility configuration of the Hasura metadata.

| Key | Value | Required | Description |
|-----|-----|-----|-----|
| `kind` | `CompatibilityConfig` | true |  |
| `date` | [CompatibilityDate](#v2_compatibilityconfig-compatibilitydate) | true | Any backwards incompatible changes made to Hasura DDN after this date won't impact the metadata. |



#### CompatibilityDate {#v2_compatibilityconfig-compatibilitydate}

Any backwards incompatible changes made to Hasura DDN after this date won't impact the metadata


**One of the following values:**

| Value | Description |
|-----|-----|
| `2024-06-30` / `2024-09-03` / `2024-09-18` / `2024-09-26` / `2024-10-07` / `2024-10-16` / `2024-10-31` / `2024-11-13` / `2024-11-15` / `2024-11-18` / `2024-11-26` / `2024-12-05` / `2024-12-10` / `2024-12-18` / `2025-01-07` / `2025-01-25` / `2025-02-04` / `2025-02-08` / `2025-02-20` / `2025-02-27` | Known compatibility dates |
| string | Any date |

Commit message:

added Validate scalar boolean expression operators compatibility flag

docs/reference/metadata-reference/compatibility-config.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 15
sidebar_label: CompatibilityConfig
description:
  "CompatibilityConfig is a metadata object that defines the compatibility configuration of the Hasura metadata."
keywords:
  - compatibility config
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

# Compatibility Config

## Introduction

The CompatibilityConfig object is a metadata object that defines the compatibility configuration of the Hasura metadata.

## How CompatibilityConfig works

### Lifecycle

By default, all projects are created with a default CompatibilityConfig object in the **globals** subgraph. It can be
defined in any subgraph of your choice, but only once across your supergraph.

The `date` field in the CompatibilityConfig object specifies the date after which any new backwards-incompatible changes
made to Hasura DDN will be disabled and will not impact the Hasura project. For example, if your project has its `date`
set to `2024-10-16`, then any new features added after that date that would result in breaking changes to your project
will be disabled. To enable these features, simply increase your `date` to a newer date.

### Compatibility dates and breaking changes

The following is a list of dates at which backwards-incompatible changes were added to Hasura DDN. Projects with
CompatibilityConfig `date`s prior to these dates will have these features disabled.

#### 2025-XX-XX (TODO)

##### Validate scalar boolean expression operators

A build error is now raised if any of the following validations for operators in scalar boolean expressions fail.
- Non-list argument types are not allowed for the `_in` operator
- Argument type must match the scalar type for `_eq`, `_lt`, `_lte`, `_gt` and `_gte` operators
- Mapped operators must exist in the data connector
- Argument type must be compatible with the mapped operator's NDC argument type

#### 2025-03-20

##### Disallow duplicate model permissions roles

A build error is now raised if the same role is defined more than once in a ModelPermissions object.

#### 2025-03-12

##### Disallow procedure command relationships

A build error is now raised if a relationship is defined between an object type and a procedure command. Procedure
commands cannot be used in relationships. This prevents navigation of relationships from accidentally causing
side-effects, as procedures can modify data.

#### 2025-03-11

##### Validate object type field types in data connector type mappings

A build error is now raised when there is a mismatch between the field types defined in an object type and the
corresponding field types in the data connector type mapping. This ensures type safety and prevents runtime errors due
to incompatible type mappings.

For example, if a PostgreSQL data connector defines a column as `INTEGER`, mapping it to an object type field defined as
`String` would raise an error:

```json
{
  "kind": "ObjectType",
  "version": "v1",
  "definition": {
    "name": "User",
    "fields": [
      {
        "name": "age",
        "type": "String!" // Error: PostgreSQL column is INTEGER but object type defines it as String
      }
    ],
    "dataConnectorTypeMapping": [
      {
        "dataConnectorName": "postgres",
        "dataConnectorObjectType": "users",
        "fieldMapping": {
          "age": {
            "column": {
              "name": "age"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

##### Validate argument type mappings

A build error is now raised when argument mapping types are invalid or incompatible with their corresponding data
connector types. This validation ensures that arguments passed to commands and models are properly typed and match the
expected types in the data connector.

For example, if a PostgreSQL function expects an `INTEGER` argument, mapping it to an argument defined as `String` would
raise an error:

```json
{
  "kind": "Command",
  "version": "v1",
  "definition": {
    "name": "get_users_by_age",
    "arguments": [
      {
        "name": "age",
        "type": "String!" // Error: PostgreSQL function expects INTEGER but argument is defined as String
      }
    ],
    "source": {
      "dataConnectorName": "postgres",
      "dataConnectorCommand": {
        "function": "get_users_by_age"
      },
      "argumentMapping": {
        "age": "age"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

##### Disallow invalid headers in AuthConfig

When using webhook mode in AuthConfig, Hasura DDN now validates all specified headers. Any invalid headers will trigger
a build error, whereas previously they were silently discarded.

##### Require `aud` claim validation in JWTs

If a JWT contains an `aud` claim, Hasura DDN will validate it against the
[`audience` field in the AuthConfig](/auth/jwt/jwt-configuration.mdx#audience). Previously this was optional, but now if
the JWT contains an `aud` claim, `audience` is must be configured in the AuthConfig. If the JWT contains an `aud` claim
and `audience` is not configured, the JWT will be rejected and authentication will fail.

This protects customers from accidentally misconfiguring their `audience` and exposing their API to unauthorized users.

#### 2025-02-27

##### Require valid command output type

A build error is now raised when a command's output type references a type that doesn't exist in the metadata.
Previously, invalid output types might have been allowed but could lead to runtime errors. This ensures that all
commands have valid and well-defined output types that can be properly handled by the system.

#### 2025-02-20

##### Disallow unknown values in arguments

Previously if an argument preset was provided via a session variable, and contained unknown fields, the engine would
ignore those fields and pass them on to the data connector.

For an object type with `name` and `age` fields, an input like this will throw an error, saying that we don't know
anything about the `not_in_our_object_type` field.

```JSON
{
  "name": "Bruce",
  "age": 30,
  "not_in_our_object_type": "bad value"
}
```

##### Disallow recursive object types

A build error is now raised when object types contain infinite recursion through non-nullable fields. This prevents
creating object type structures that could lead to infinite loops during query execution. For example:

```json
{
  "kind": "ObjectType",
  "version": "v1",
  "definition": {
    "name": "Person",
    "fields": [
      {
        "name": "id",
        "type": "Int!"
      },
      {
        "name": "name",
        "type": "String!"
      },
      {
        "name": "bestFriend",
        "type": "Friend!"  // Non-nullable reference to Friend type
      }
    ]
  }
},
{
  "kind": "ObjectType",
  "version": "v1",
  "definition": {
    "name": "Friend",
    "fields": [
      {
        "name": "id",
        "type": "Int!"
      },
      {
        "name": "name",
        "type": "String!"
      },
      {
        "name": "bestFriend",
        "type": "Person!"  // Non-nullable reference back to Person type
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

This creates an infinite recursion because `Person` must have a `Friend`, who must have a `Person`, who must have a
`Friend`, and so on infinitely. This is now disallowed. To fix this, make at least one of the references nullable:

```json
{
  "kind": "ObjectType",
  "version": "v1",
  "definition": {
    "name": "Person",
    "fields": [
      {
        "name": "id",
        "type": "Int!"
      },
      {
        "name": "name",
        "type": "String!"
      },
      {
        "name": "bestFriend",
        "type": "Friend" // Now nullable, breaking the infinite recursion
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

This ensures that all object type relationships have a clear termination point.

#### 2025-02-08

##### Disallow unsupported orderable relationships

Build errors are now raised if unsupported orderable relationships are defined on OrderByExpressions. Specifically:

- If the relationship is a remote relationship
- If the data connector does not support performing relationships
- If the target Model or Command of the relationship does not have a source defined

##### Disallow relationships where the data connector does not support relationships or remote relationships

A build error is now raised if a Relationship is defined between an ObjectType and a Model or Command that are sourced
from the same data connector, but that data connector does not support performing relationships or support remote
relationships.

#### 2025-02-04

##### Command and argument preset typechecking

A build error is now raised if an argument preset defined in CommandPermissions or ModelPermissions or a field preset in
TypePermissions specifies a literal value that does not match the type of the argument or field it is supposed to be
presetting.

##### Disallow scalar type mismatch in object type fields

A build error is now raised if an ObjectType's field's scalar type does not match the scalar type of the underlying data
connector's object type field. The field's specified scalar type must have a DataConnectorScalarRepresentation defined
that specifies it as the representation for the data connector's scalar type.

##### Disallow unknown ObjectType field types

A build error is now raised if an ObjectType's field's type is an unknown type.

##### Disallow orderable fields that have field arguments

A build error is now raised if an orderable field on an OrderByExpression has field arguments. This scenario is not
supported.

#### 2025-01-25

##### Disallow duplicate scalar type aggregate functions

A build error is now raised if a data connector scalar type has multiple aggregate functions of the same type (for
example, two sum functions for the same scalar type). This ensures that there is no ambiguity when choosing an aggregate
function for a particular purpose (for example, performing a sum aggregate).

#### 2025-01-07

##### Disallow duplicate operator definitions for scalar type

A build error is now raised when a scalar type has multiple operator definitions with the same name. For example, if you
have a custom scalar type and define multiple operators with the same name in its boolean expression configuration, the
build will fail. This ensures that operator definitions for scalar types are unique and prevents ambiguity in boolean
expressions.

##### Disallow multidimensional arrays in boolean expressions

A build error is now raised when multidimensional arrays (arrays of arrays) are used in boolean expressions. This
restriction applies to both array comparison operators and array relationship fields within boolean expressions.
Previously, such configurations might have been allowed but could lead to runtime errors or undefined behavior. This
change ensures that only single-dimensional arrays can be used in boolean expressions, making the behavior more
predictable and preventing potential runtime issues.

##### Disallow duplicate names across types and expressions

A build error is now raised when:

- Duplicate names exist within a subgraph for the following definitions:

  - [`BooleanExpressionType`](/reference/metadata-reference/boolean-expressions.mdx#booleanexpressiontype-booleanexpressiontype)
  - [`OrderByExpression`](/reference/metadata-reference/orderby-expressions.mdx)

- Type name conflicts exist within a subgraph across the following type definitions:
  - [`ScalarType`](/reference/metadata-reference/types.mdx#scalartype)
  - [`ObjectType`](/reference/metadata-reference/types.mdx#objecttype)
  - [`BooleanExpressionType`](/reference/metadata-reference/boolean-expressions.mdx#booleanexpressiontype-booleanexpressiontype)

#### 2024-12-18

##### Disallow non-scalar fields in Model v1 `orderableFields`

`orderableFields` in `Model` v1 now only allows fields of scalar types. Previously this was allowed, but queries that
tried to order against the non-scalar fields would fail at runtime or produce unexpected results. To order over nested
object fields, upgrade to `Model` v2 and use `OrderByExpression`s instead.

##### Disallow nested fields and nested relationships in OrderByExpressions when the data connector does not support them

Previously `OrderByExpression`s that incorporated nested fields and nested relationships were allowed to be used with
`Model`s that sourced from data connectors that did not support ordering by nested fields and nested relationships. Such
a configuration will now result in a build error.

##### Prevent usage of array relationships in OrderByExpressions

Previously `OrderByExpression`s could specify array relationships in `orderableRelationships`. This was incorrect
behaviour, as only object relationships can be ordered over, and now results in a build error.

#### 2024-12-10

##### Disallow multiple fields on input objects in GraphQL in `order_by`

GraphQL queries with `order_by` arguments that contain multiple properties set on one input object now properly return
an error. For example `order_by: { location: { city: Asc, country: Asc } }` is no longer allowed. This is because the
order of input object fields in GraphQL is not defined, so it is unclear whether ordering should be first by city or
first by country. Instead, write this query like so:
`order_by: [{ location: { city: Asc } }, { location: { country: Asc } }]`.

Additionally, ordering by nested fields using a nested array is no longer allowed (for example:
`order_by: { location: [{ city: Asc }, { country: Asc }] }`). Instead, write this query like so:
`order_by: [{ location: { city: Asc } }, { location: { country: Asc } }]`.

#### 2024-12-05

##### Prevent conflicts between boolean expression fields in GraphQL

Conflicts between fields on boolean expression types that have the same name (such as conflicts between fields and
logical operators) are now detected and a build error is raised.

#### 2024-11-26

##### Logical operators in scalar boolean expression types

Previously, if logical operators (ie. `_and`, `_or`, `_not`) were enabled in scalar `BooleanExpressionType`s, they would
_not_ appear in the GraphQL API. Now, if they are enabled, they will correctly appear in the GraphQL API as configured.

#### 2024-11-18

##### Disallow object boolean expression type

A build error is now raised if `ObjectBooleanExpressionType` is used to define a boolean expression. To resolve this,
you can upgrade all object boolean expression types in your metadata by running the following DDN codemod command.

```bash
ddn codemod upgrade-object-boolean-expression-types
```

Learn more about the [command here](/reference/cli/commands/ddn_codemod_upgrade-object-boolean-expression-types.mdx).

#### 2024-11-15

##### Require unique model GraphQL names

A build error is now raised if a root field defined in a `Model`'s GraphQL config conflicts with an existing root field.
Previously, the conflicting root field was silently excluded from the GraphQL schema.

##### Require a valid NDC version in data connector capabilities

A build error is now raised when there is an invalid version in the capabilities of a data connector's schema. To fix
the error, please consider upgrading to the latest version of the data connector and running `ddn connector introspect`
to correct the invalid version. Prior to this change, it was assumed that the data connector with the invalid version
was an NDC v0.1.x connector.

#### 2024-11-13

##### Allow resolving boolean expression fields without GraphQL config

Previously, comparable fields, relationships, and aggregate fields of a `BooleanExpressionType` were validated only if
the `graphql` field was configured in the metadata. These fields are now validated regardless of whether the `graphql`
configuration is specified.

#### 2024-10-31

##### Disallow comparisons against scalar array fields in predicates

A build error is now raised if a scalar array field is configured in a BooleanExpressionType as a comparable field.
Comparisons against scalar array fields are not supported as at this compatibility date.

#### 2024-10-16

##### Enable JSON session variable support

Session variables provided in JWT claims, webhook responses or in the NoAuth settings can now be any JSON value, instead
of just a string. This enable scenarios such as being able to put lists of values into a single session variable.
However, this now means that if you use the session variable in a comparison against a field, the field's type must
match the type of the session variable. For example, if you are comparing against an integer field, your session
variable must be set as a JSON number and not a string.

#### 2024-10-07

##### Require unique command GraphQL names

A build error is now raised when there is a conflict with a GraphQL root field or GraphQL type name that is already in
use. Before this, the command would be silently dropped from the GraphQL schema.

#### 2024-09-26

##### Propagate boolean expression deprecation status

The `deprecated` status for relationship fields is now propagated to boolean expressions that use them. The default
GraphQL introspection behavior is to hide such fields from the schema, so this behavior is considered a breaking change.

##### Disallow scalar types names conflicting with inbuilt types

A build error is now raised when a `ScalarType` metadata type is defined that conflicts with any of the built-in type
names (`ID`, `Int`, `String`, `Boolean`, `Float`).

#### 2024-09-18

##### Require nested array filtering capability

A build error is now raised when a nested array field is defined on an ObjectType used in a Model whose underlying data
connector does not have the `query.exists.nested_collections` capability defined.

#### 2024-09-03

##### Enable relationships in predicates to be used even if the data connector does not support it

Previously, only data connectors that supported the `relationships.relation_comparisons` capability supported
relationships in predicates. This change allows you to use relationships in boolean expressions even if the data
connector lacks support. When the capability is available, relationship predicates are resolved directly within the
native data connector for more efficient processing. If not, the predicates are handled at the API layer.

#### 2024-06-30

##### Require GraphQL Config

A build error is now raised if a [GraphQLConfig](reference/metadata-reference/graphql-config.mdx) is not provided in the
project metadata.

---

## Metadata structure


### v2_CompatibilityConfig {#v2_compatibilityconfig-v2_compatibilityconfig}

The compatibility configuration of the Hasura metadata.

| Key | Value | Required | Description |
|-----|-----|-----|-----|
| `kind` | `CompatibilityConfig` | true |  |
| `date` | [CompatibilityDate](#v2_compatibilityconfig-compatibilitydate) | true | Any backwards incompatible changes made to Hasura DDN after this date won't impact the metadata. |



#### CompatibilityDate {#v2_compatibilityconfig-compatibilitydate}

Any backwards incompatible changes made to Hasura DDN after this date won't impact the metadata


**One of the following values:**

| Value | Description |
|-----|-----|
| `2024-06-30` / `2024-09-03` / `2024-09-18` / `2024-09-26` / `2024-10-07` / `2024-10-16` / `2024-10-31` / `2024-11-13` / `2024-11-15` / `2024-11-18` / `2024-11-26` / `2024-12-05` / `2024-12-10` / `2024-12-18` / `2025-01-07` / `2025-01-25` / `2025-02-04` / `2025-02-08` / `2025-02-20` / `2025-02-27` | Known compatibility dates |
| string | Any date |
