docs/deployment/hasura-ddn/tutorial/04-deploy-your-supergraph.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_label: Deploy your supergraph
description: "Learn how to get started with Hasura DDN and your GraphQL API."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - graphql api
  - quickstart
  - getting started
  - guide
---

import Thumbnail from "@site/src/components/Thumbnail";

# Deploy your Supergraph

## What's about to happen?

You're about to deploy your supergraph to Hasura DDN, our globally-distributed, highly-available, lightning-fast hosted
service!

<Thumbnail src="/img/get-started/ERD/deploy-supergraph.png" alt="Deploy your supergraph to Hasura DDN" width="1000px" />

## Steps

:::tip Required

- [DDN CLI](/quickstart.mdx)
- A new or existing [supergraph](/quickstart.mdx)
- A new or existing [subgraph](/quickstart.mdx)
- A new or existing [data connector](/quickstart.mdx)
- A new or existing [project](/deployment/hasura-ddn/tutorial/01-create-a-project.mdx)

:::

### Step 1. Build and deploy your supergraph

```bash title="Run:"
ddn supergraph build create
```

:::info Project set in context

Remember that because we set the project context, we don't need to pass the project name as a flag in the command.

:::

### Step 2. Explore your supergraph in the Hasura Console

The CLI will respond with a build version and build **Console URL**. _Click on it!_

You can go ahead and explore the API for this build in the Hasura Console!

### Step 3. Apply your supergraph as your project's endpoint.

An _applied build_ is the default one that is served by your Hasura DDN project endpoint.

```bash title="To apply a build, run:"
ddn supergraph build apply <supergraph-build-version>
```

:::info Your API is still private

By default, all Hasura DDN projects are in `Private` API Access Mode and accessible only to project collaborators. In
your console on DDN you will see a JWT token set in the `x-hasura-ddn-token` header which you can use to access your API
from both the console and any client app. This token will expire after 1 hour and you can regenerate it by refreshing
the console.

You can navigate to the project's settings and switch the API Access Mode setting to `Public` to make your API
accessible to anyone.

**Note: Your API will be now be accessible from any source and you should protect it using either the
[JWT](/auth/jwt/index.mdx) or [webhook](/auth/webhook/index.mdx) auth configuration.**

:::

## What did this do?

When you ran the command above, the CLI used the configuration you provided to create an immutable build of your
supergraph on Hasura DDN. This build is now accessible via the build's GraphQL endpoint and in the Hasura Console for
exploration.

Teammates can explore the API, interact with it, and provide feedback before you iterate and create a new build for
testing. Or, if you're ready, you can apply the build so that it's served by the project's endpoint. And, should you
realize you applied it a _little_ early, you can easily roll it back by applying an older build.

## Next steps

At this point, you have all the ingredients and knowledge to create a robust supergraph that composes data across
various sources and aggregates them into a single, reliable, performant API. Before moving to production, consider the
resources below:

### Migrations

Hasura recommends a number of third-party solutions for managing database migrations. Commonly, users implement
migrations via CI/CD with [Flyway](https://flywaydb.org/) or similar resources.

:::info Doesn't Hasura manage migrations?

In v2, Hasura provided a built-in migration tool. However, as v3 metadata is decoupled from the underlying data source,
you are free to manage your migrations however you wish.

:::

### Performance optimizations

Hasura provides a suite of observability tools directly in a project's DDN console. You can view traces, query plans,
and general usage statistics. These are helpful for diagnosing common bottlenecks and problems with your application's
performance. You can read more about these [here](/observability/overview.mdx).

### CI/CD

You can create a pipeline for deployments using any tools you wish. As we recommend initializing a git repository early
in the project creation process, and provide operability with environment variables, you can follow any git-workflow
best practices for moving between development, staging, and production environments. Additionally, we provide a
configurable [GitHub Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/ddn-deployment) for automatically managing your
deployments.

Commit message:

[DX-881] Add `--apply` flag documentation to streamline supergraph build and apply process (#943)

docs/deployment/hasura-ddn/tutorial/04-deploy-your-supergraph.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_label: Deploy your supergraph
description: "Learn how to get started with Hasura DDN and your GraphQL API."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - graphql api
  - quickstart
  - getting started
  - guide
---

import Thumbnail from "@site/src/components/Thumbnail";

# Deploy your Supergraph

## What's about to happen?

You're about to deploy your supergraph to Hasura DDN, our globally-distributed, highly-available, lightning-fast hosted
service!

<Thumbnail src="/img/get-started/ERD/deploy-supergraph.png" alt="Deploy your supergraph to Hasura DDN" width="1000px" />

## Steps

:::tip Required

- [DDN CLI](/quickstart.mdx)
- A new or existing [supergraph](/quickstart.mdx)
- A new or existing [subgraph](/quickstart.mdx)
- A new or existing [data connector](/quickstart.mdx)
- A new or existing [project](/deployment/hasura-ddn/tutorial/01-create-a-project.mdx)

:::

### Step 1. Build and deploy your supergraph

```bash title="Run:"
ddn supergraph build create
```

:::info Project set in context

Remember that because we set the project context, we don't need to pass the project name as a flag in the command.

:::

### Step 2. Explore your supergraph in the Hasura Console

The CLI will respond with a build version and build **Console URL**. _Click on it!_

You can go ahead and explore the API for this build in the Hasura Console!

### Step 3. Apply your supergraph as your project's endpoint.

An _applied build_ is the default one that is served by your Hasura DDN project endpoint.

```bash title="To apply a build, run:"
ddn supergraph build apply <supergraph-build-version>
```

:::tip Streamline your deployment
For a more efficient deployment workflow, you can create and apply the supergraph build in a single command using
`ddn supergraph build create --apply`
:::

:::info Your API is still private

By default, all Hasura DDN projects are in `Private` API Access Mode and accessible only to project collaborators. In
your console on DDN you will see a JWT token set in the `x-hasura-ddn-token` header which you can use to access your API
from both the console and any client app. This token will expire after 1 hour and you can regenerate it by refreshing
the console.

You can navigate to the project's settings and switch the API Access Mode setting to `Public` to make your API
accessible to anyone.

**Note: Your API will be now be accessible from any source and you should protect it using either the
[JWT](/auth/jwt/index.mdx) or [webhook](/auth/webhook/index.mdx) auth configuration.**

:::

## What did this do?

When you ran the command above, the CLI used the configuration you provided to create an immutable build of your
supergraph on Hasura DDN. This build is now accessible via the build's GraphQL endpoint and in the Hasura Console for
exploration.

Teammates can explore the API, interact with it, and provide feedback before you iterate and create a new build for
testing. Or, if you're ready, you can apply the build so that it's served by the project's endpoint. And, should you
realize you applied it a _little_ early, you can easily roll it back by applying an older build.

## Next steps

At this point, you have all the ingredients and knowledge to create a robust supergraph that composes data across
various sources and aggregates them into a single, reliable, performant API. Before moving to production, consider the
resources below:

### Migrations

Hasura recommends a number of third-party solutions for managing database migrations. Commonly, users implement
migrations via CI/CD with [Flyway](https://flywaydb.org/) or similar resources.

:::info Doesn't Hasura manage migrations?

In v2, Hasura provided a built-in migration tool. However, as v3 metadata is decoupled from the underlying data source,
you are free to manage your migrations however you wish.

:::

### Performance optimizations

Hasura provides a suite of observability tools directly in a project's DDN console. You can view traces, query plans,
and general usage statistics. These are helpful for diagnosing common bottlenecks and problems with your application's
performance. You can read more about these [here](/observability/overview.mdx).

### CI/CD

You can create a pipeline for deployments using any tools you wish. As we recommend initializing a git repository early
in the project creation process, and provide operability with environment variables, you can follow any git-workflow
best practices for moving between development, staging, and production environments. Additionally, we provide a
configurable [GitHub Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/ddn-deployment) for automatically managing your
deployments.
