docs/deployment/overview.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Overview
description: "Deployment options for Hasura DDN: The Supergraph Platform"
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - hasura enterprise
  - hasura private ddn
  - private ddn
  - enterprise ddn
  - byoc
hide_table_of_contents: true
seoFrontMatterUpdated: true
---

import { OverviewTopSectionIconNoVideo } from "@site/src/components/OverviewTopSectionIconNoVideo";
import { OverviewPlainCard } from "@site/src/components/OverviewPlainCard";
import Icon from "@site/static/icons/features/deployment.svg";

# Deployment

## Introduction

Hasura DDN is a fully managed SaaS product where your API is running on the cloud, where performance, availability and
security is already taken care of for you. Your API will be running on Hasura's optimized serverless production
infrastructure.

For organizations with advanced security and compliance needs, Hasura DDN can be deployed within isolated compute and
network infrastructure hosted with a cloud provider and their regions that you choose. Private deployment of Hasura DDN
enables secure connectivity to your data sources, whether they are within your Cloud VPCs or on-prem infrastructure. You
can also configure the API to be exposed over internal IP alone. Advanced firewalll rules and API protections are
available

Hasura DDN can also be self-hosted within your own infrastructure, provided a Kubernetes cluster is available. You can
also connect your own Cloud provider account with Hasura Cloud and have Hasura DDN deployed within that account.

## Find out more

- [Architecture](/deployment/architecture.mdx)
- [Serverless edge](/deployment/serverless.mdx)
- [Deploy to Hasura Cloud](/deployment/deployment/index.mdx)
- [Deploy to a Private DDN](/deployment/private/index.mdx)

Commit message:

Remove Self Hosted Customer Managed docs

docs/deployment/overview.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Overview
description: "Deployment options for Hasura DDN: The Supergraph Platform"
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - hasura enterprise
  - hasura private ddn
  - private ddn
  - enterprise ddn
  - byoc
hide_table_of_contents: true
seoFrontMatterUpdated: true
---

import { OverviewTopSectionIconNoVideo } from "@site/src/components/OverviewTopSectionIconNoVideo";
import { OverviewPlainCard } from "@site/src/components/OverviewPlainCard";
import Icon from "@site/static/icons/features/deployment.svg";

# Deployment

## Introduction

Hasura DDN is a fully managed SaaS product where your API is running on the cloud, where performance, availability and
security is already taken care of for you. Your API will be running on Hasura's optimized serverless production
infrastructure.

For organizations with advanced security and compliance needs, Hasura DDN can be deployed within isolated compute and
network infrastructure hosted with a cloud provider and their regions that you choose. Private deployment of Hasura DDN
enables secure connectivity to your data sources, whether they are within your Cloud VPCs or on-prem infrastructure. You
can also configure the API to be exposed over internal IP alone. Advanced firewalll rules and API protections are
available.

Finally, Hasura DDN can also be connected to your own Cloud provider account. Infrastructure and workloads will be provisioned
and managed by the Hasura team.

## Find out more

- [Architecture](/deployment/architecture.mdx)
- [Serverless edge](/deployment/serverless.mdx)
- [Deploy to Hasura Cloud](/deployment/deployment/index.mdx)
- [Deploy to a Private DDN](/deployment/private/index.mdx)
