docs/reference/connectors/mongodb/native-operations/native-mutations.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: Native Mutations
description:
  "Native Queries allow you to run custom aggregation pipelines on your ClickHouse instance. This allows you to run
  queries that are not supported by Hasura's GraphQL engine. This page explains how to configure various types of Native
  Queries in Hasura."
keywords:
  - native mutationsc
---

# Native Mutations

## Introduction

Native Mutations allow you to run custom commands on your MongoDB database using the [runCommand][MongoDB: runCommand]
API that can be exposed via the Hasura GraphQL and modify the database state. As point-to-point mutations are not yet
supported, this is one way to mutate data using your GraphQL API.

## Setup

Native Mutations can be defined by

1. Adding a `native_mutations` directory if one doesn't already exist in your connector configuration directory
2. Adding a `.json` file following the syntax laid out in the following sections.

## Example

Here's an example of simple `"insert_artist"` Native Mutation:

### Configuration

```json
{
  "name": "insertArtist",
  "description": "Example of a database insert using a native mutation",
  "resultType": {
    "object": "InsertArtist"
  },
  "arguments": {
    "artistId": {
      "type": {
        "scalar": "int"
      }
    },
    "name": {
      "type": {
        "scalar": "string"
      }
    }
  },
  "objectTypes": {
    "InsertArtist": {
      "fields": {
        "ok": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "int"
          }
        },
        "n": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "int"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "command": {
    "insert": "Artist",
    "documents": [
      {
        "ArtistId": "{{ artistId }}",
        "Name": "{{ name }}"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

This will create a mutation called `"insertUser"` which takes two arguments called `"artistId"` of type `int`, and
`"name"` of type `string`. The query will return an object with the keys `"ok"` and `"n"` and the values as `int`s.

:::tip Valid Native Mutation Syntax

Check out our page on writing valid Hasura DDN
[Native Operations syntax](/reference/connectors/mongodb/native-operations/syntax.mdx).

:::

### Usage

With the example above, you can then use the query in your GraphQL API like this:

```graphql
mutation MyMutation {
  insertArtist(artistId: 10000, name: "Pearl Jam") {
    ok
    n
  }
}
```

[MongoDB: runCommand]: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/method/db.runCommand

Commit message:

Docs: Update frontmatter
Updates frontmatter across all pages touched in the PR.

Some pages had existing frontmatter that could be brought over. Some needed it hand-authored.

docs/reference/connectors/mongodb/native-operations/native-mutations.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: Native Mutations
description:
  "Native mutations allow you to mutate date in your MongoDB instance. This page explains how to configure various types
  of Native Mutations in Hasura."
keywords:
  - native mutationsc
---

# Native Mutations

## Introduction

Native Mutations allow you to run custom commands on your MongoDB database using the [runCommand][MongoDB: runCommand]
API that can be exposed via the Hasura GraphQL and modify the database state. As point-to-point mutations are not yet
supported, this is one way to mutate data using your GraphQL API.

## Setup

Native Mutations can be defined by

1. Adding a `native_mutations` directory if one doesn't already exist in your connector configuration directory
2. Adding a `.json` file following the syntax laid out in the following sections.

## Example

Here's an example of simple `"insert_artist"` Native Mutation:

### Configuration

```json
{
  "name": "insertArtist",
  "description": "Example of a database insert using a native mutation",
  "resultType": {
    "object": "InsertArtist"
  },
  "arguments": {
    "artistId": {
      "type": {
        "scalar": "int"
      }
    },
    "name": {
      "type": {
        "scalar": "string"
      }
    }
  },
  "objectTypes": {
    "InsertArtist": {
      "fields": {
        "ok": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "int"
          }
        },
        "n": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "int"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "command": {
    "insert": "Artist",
    "documents": [
      {
        "ArtistId": "{{ artistId }}",
        "Name": "{{ name }}"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

This will create a mutation called `"insertUser"` which takes two arguments called `"artistId"` of type `int`, and
`"name"` of type `string`. The query will return an object with the keys `"ok"` and `"n"` and the values as `int`s.

:::tip Valid Native Mutation Syntax

Check out our page on writing valid Hasura DDN
[Native Operations syntax](/reference/connectors/mongodb/native-operations/syntax.mdx).

:::

### Usage

With the example above, you can then use the query in your GraphQL API like this:

```graphql
mutation MyMutation {
  insertArtist(artistId: 10000, name: "Pearl Jam") {
    ok
    n
  }
}
```

[MongoDB: runCommand]: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/method/db.runCommand
