docs/deployment/self-hosted/docker-compose-simple.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Docker Compose
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - tutorial
  - deploy
  - deployment
  - hosting
  - self-hosted
id: docker-compose-simple
pagination_prev: deployment/self-hosted/index
pagination_next: deployment/self-hosted/docker-containers
---

# Self-Host: Docker Compose

## Introduction

This guide will take you through hosting your supergraph API on a single cloud machine using Docker Compose. This
approach is similar to running a local development setup in production.

## Prerequisites

- A cloud server (e.g., DigitalOcean Droplet, AWS EC2, etc.) running Linux
- Docker and Docker Compose v2.27.1 or later installed on the server
- SSH access to your server
- Open port `3280` for TCP traffic
- A Hasura account
- A Hasura DDN project
- Your supergraph project files

## Step 1. Prepare your server

Create your server with your cloud provider and SSH into it.

1. SSH into your cloud server:

   ```bash
   ssh user@your-server-ip
   ```

2. Install Docker if not already installed. Follow the
   [official Docker installation guide](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) for your Linux distribution. Docker
   Compose is included with modern versions of Docker.

3. Create a directory for your supergraph:

   ```bash
   mkdir -p /opt/hasura-supergraph
   cd /opt/hasura-supergraph
   ```

4. Install the DDN CLI:

   ```bash
   curl -L https://graphql-engine-cdn.hasura.io/ddn/cli/v4/get.sh | bash
   ```

## Step 2. Get your supergraph files

1. Copy your local supergraph project files to the server. From your local machine run:

   ```bash
   scp -r ./your-supergraph-project/* user@your-server-ip:/opt/hasura-supergraph/
   ```

   Or use git to clone your repository if your project is version controlled:

   ```bash
   git clone your-repository-http-url .
   ```

   :::info GitHub SSH URLs

   To clone with an SSH url from GitHub
   [you will need to configure your SSH access](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/getting-started-with-git/about-remote-repositories#cloning-with-ssh-urls).

   :::

   Note that the `.env` files are ignored by default in your `.gitignore` file so cloning will not include them. You
   will need to either copy them over manually or recreate them on the server.

## Step 3. Authenticate the DDN CLI

You will still need to authenticate the DDN CLI to your Hasura account. Because your headless server does not have a
browser, you will need to use a personal access token.

On your local machine, once you are logged in with `ddn auth login` run:

```bash
ddn auth print-access-token
```

This will print out your personal access token. Copy it and on the cloud server run:

```bash
ddn auth login --access-token <access-token>
```

This will authenticate the DDN CLI with your Hasura account.

## Step 4. Build your supergraph

```bash
ddn supergraph build local
```

## Step 5. Check server network access

You will need to ensure that your server can be accessed from the internet over TCP on port `3280`. Use your cloud
provider's network tools to set up access.

For example, on DigitalOcean, you can create a firewall rule to allow inbound TCP traffic on port `3280` (or all ports)
for all IPv4 sources.

## Step 6. Start your services

```bash
ddn run docker-start
```

Docker logs will be output to the console. You can start another ssh session to run new commands, or amend the
`.hasura/context.yaml` `docker-start` script to include the "detatched" flag `-d` at the end.

Check the status of your containers with:

```bash
docker ps
```

## Step 7. Access your supergraph

Your supergraph API should now be running in production on your cloud server. Access it at
`https://<your-domain-or-ip>:3280/graphql`

You can check your access with this curl command:

```bash
curl -X POST https://<your-domain-or-ip>:3280/graphql \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -d '{"query": "{ __schema { types { name } } }"}'
```

You should see a JSON response with the schema of your supergraph.

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues:

1. Check service logs:

   ```bash
   docker compose logs -f docker-compose-service-name
   ```

2. Verify all required files and volumes are present

3. Ensure all environment variables are correctly set

4. Check network connectivity between services

## Updating your deployment

To update your deployment with new changes:

1. Pull the latest code changes

2. Rebuild your supergraph:

   ```bash
   ddn supergraph build local
   ```

3. Restart the services:
   ```bash
   docker stop $(docker ps -q)
   ddn run docker-start
   ```

Commit message:

Docs: Backport project info to simple docker setup

docs/deployment/self-hosted/docker-compose-simple.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Docker Compose
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - tutorial
  - deploy
  - deployment
  - hosting
  - self-hosted
id: docker-compose-simple
pagination_prev: deployment/self-hosted/index
pagination_next: deployment/self-hosted/docker-containers
---

# Self-Host: Docker Compose

## Introduction

This guide will take you through hosting your supergraph API on a single cloud machine using Docker Compose. This
approach is similar to running a local development setup in production.

## Prerequisites

- A cloud server (e.g., DigitalOcean Droplet, AWS EC2, etc.) running Linux
- Docker and Docker Compose v2.27.1 or later installed on the server
- SSH access to your server
- Open port `3280` for TCP traffic
- A Hasura account
- A Hasura DDN project
- Your supergraph project files

:::info Don't yet have a project?

You'll need to create a set of project metadata files using the [DDN CLI](/reference/cli/index.mdx). You can use the
[Quickstart](/quickstart.mdx) docs or get started with a [particular connector](/how-to-build-with-ddn/overview.mdx). We
recommend completing this set of steps on your host machine or via your own CI setup.

:::

## Step 1. Prepare your server

Create your server with your cloud provider and SSH into it.

1. SSH into your cloud server:

   ```bash
   ssh user@your-server-ip
   ```

2. Install Docker if not already installed. Follow the
   [official Docker installation guide](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) for your Linux distribution. Docker
   Compose is included with modern versions of Docker.

3. Create a directory for your supergraph:

   ```bash
   mkdir -p /opt/hasura-supergraph
   cd /opt/hasura-supergraph
   ```

4. Install the DDN CLI:

   ```bash
   curl -L https://graphql-engine-cdn.hasura.io/ddn/cli/v4/get.sh | bash
   ```

## Step 2. Get your supergraph files

1. Copy your local supergraph project files to the server. From your local machine run:

   ```bash
   scp -r ./your-supergraph-project/* user@your-server-ip:/opt/hasura-supergraph/
   ```

   Or use git to clone your repository if your project is version controlled:

   ```bash
   git clone your-repository-http-url .
   ```

   :::info GitHub SSH URLs

   To clone with an SSH url from GitHub
   [you will need to configure your SSH access](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/getting-started-with-git/about-remote-repositories#cloning-with-ssh-urls).

   :::

   Note that the `.env` files are ignored by default in your `.gitignore` file so cloning will not include them. You
   will need to either copy them over manually or recreate them on the server.

## Step 3. Authenticate the DDN CLI

You will still need to authenticate the DDN CLI to your Hasura account. Because your headless server does not have a
browser, you will need to use a personal access token.

On your local machine, once you are logged in with `ddn auth login` run:

```bash
ddn auth print-access-token
```

This will print out your personal access token. Copy it and on the cloud server run:

```bash
ddn auth login --access-token <access-token>
```

This will authenticate the DDN CLI with your Hasura account.

## Step 4. Build your supergraph

```bash
ddn supergraph build local
```

## Step 5. Check server network access

You will need to ensure that your server can be accessed from the internet over TCP on port `3280`. Use your cloud
provider's network tools to set up access.

For example, on DigitalOcean, you can create a firewall rule to allow inbound TCP traffic on port `3280` (or all ports)
for all IPv4 sources.

## Step 6. Start your services

```bash
ddn run docker-start
```

Docker logs will be output to the console. You can start another ssh session to run new commands, or amend the
`.hasura/context.yaml` `docker-start` script to include the "detatched" flag `-d` at the end.

Check the status of your containers with:

```bash
docker ps
```

## Step 7. Access your supergraph

Your supergraph API should now be running in production on your cloud server. Access it at
`https://<your-domain-or-ip>:3280/graphql`

You can check your access with this curl command:

```bash
curl -X POST https://<your-domain-or-ip>:3280/graphql \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -d '{"query": "{ __schema { types { name } } }"}'
```

You should see a JSON response with the schema of your supergraph.

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues:

1. Check service logs:

   ```bash
   docker compose logs -f docker-compose-service-name
   ```

2. Verify all required files and volumes are present

3. Ensure all environment variables are correctly set

4. Check network connectivity between services

## Updating your deployment

To update your deployment with new changes:

1. Pull the latest code changes

2. Rebuild your supergraph:

   ```bash
   ddn supergraph build local
   ```

3. Restart the services:
   ```bash
   docker stop $(docker ps -q)
   ddn run docker-start
   ```
