docs/federation/build-commands.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 6
sidebar_label: Build Commands
description:
  "Commands for building supergraphs and subgraphs on Hasura DDN"
keywords:
  - ddn
  - build
  - commands
  - supergraph
  - subgraph
  - federation
seoFrontMatterUpdated: true
---

# Federation Build Command Examples

A supergraph build is a combination of subgraph builds. 

This guide provides a overview of the commands available for building supergraphs and subgraphs on Hasura DDN.

:::info Flags vs Context

We are explicity using flags here to show what arguments are set, some of these can be set as 
[context](/project-configuration/contexts.mdx). 

:::

## Supergraph Builds

#### Build the supergraph, all subgraphs and all connectors from the same single-repo project
```bash
ddn supergraph build create --supergraph supergraph.yaml
```

#### Build a Supergraph using explicitly specified subgraph builds (DDN Advanced only)
```bash
ddn supergraph build create --subgraph-version subA:4235698557 --subgraph-version subB:46241f2bd9 --subgraph-version subC:1ef62e5024 --base-supergraph-on-applied
```

#### Build a Supergraph using explicitly specified subgraph builds with an explicitly specified base supergraph version (DDN Advanced only)
```bash
ddn supergraph build create --subgraph-version globals:fc3ce56a69 --subgraph-version my_subgraph:ee738baa8f --base-supergraph-version 155e3569c4
```

## Subgraph Builds

#### Build a subgraph and all connectors in that subgraph on DDN
```bash
ddn subgraph build create --subgraph ./subgraph.yaml
```

#### Build a subgraph but skip rebuilding connectors in that subgraph
```bash
ddn subgraph build create --subgraph ./subgraph.yaml --no-build-connectors
```

#### Apply a subgraph build to a supergraph (Make it available for queries)
```bash
ddn subgraph build apply a1620044d7
```

## Connector Builds

#### Build a connector on DDN
```bash
ddn connector build create --connector ./connector.yaml
```

## Learn more

- [Learn more about federation architecture](/federation/architecture.mdx)
- [Learn more about independent subgraph development](/federation/independent-subgraph-development.mdx)
- [Learn more about contexts](/project-configuration/contexts.mdx)

Commit message:

Docs: Stub out new directory structure
Stubs out new directory structure and modifies refs across docs to point to
the overview page for the section.

docs/federation/build-commands.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 6
sidebar_label: Build Commands
description: "Commands for building supergraphs and subgraphs on Hasura DDN"
keywords:
  - ddn
  - build
  - commands
  - supergraph
  - subgraph
  - federation
seoFrontMatterUpdated: true
---

# Federation Build Command Examples

A supergraph build is a combination of subgraph builds.

This guide provides a overview of the commands available for building supergraphs and subgraphs on Hasura DDN.

:::info Flags vs Context

We are explicity using flags here to show what arguments are set, some of these can be set as
[context](/project/configuration/overview.mdx :::

## Supergraph Builds

#### Build the supergraph, all subgraphs and all connectors from the same single-repo project

```bash
ddn supergraph build create --supergraph supergraph.yaml
```

#### Build a Supergraph using explicitly specified subgraph builds (DDN Advanced only)

```bash
ddn supergraph build create --subgraph-version subA:4235698557 --subgraph-version subB:46241f2bd9 --subgraph-version subC:1ef62e5024 --base-supergraph-on-applied
```

#### Build a Supergraph using explicitly specified subgraph builds with an explicitly specified base supergraph version (DDN Advanced only)

```bash
ddn supergraph build create --subgraph-version globals:fc3ce56a69 --subgraph-version my_subgraph:ee738baa8f --base-supergraph-version 155e3569c4
```

## Subgraph Builds

#### Build a subgraph and all connectors in that subgraph on DDN

```bash
ddn subgraph build create --subgraph ./subgraph.yaml
```

#### Build a subgraph but skip rebuilding connectors in that subgraph

```bash
ddn subgraph build create --subgraph ./subgraph.yaml --no-build-connectors
```

#### Apply a subgraph build to a supergraph (Make it available for queries)

```bash
ddn subgraph build apply a1620044d7
```

## Connector Builds

#### Build a connector on DDN

```bash
ddn connector build create --connector ./connector.yaml
```

## Learn more

- [Learn more about federation architecture](/federation/architecture.mdx)
- [Learn more about independent subgraph development](/federation/independent-subgraph-development.mdx)
- [Learn more about contexts](/project/configuration/overview.mdx
