### kind {#L2}

The `kind` field specifies the type of object being defined. In this case, the object is a model. A model represents a
logical grouping of data, typically corresponding to a table or collection in a database, that can be used for querying
and other operations within the system. Defining the correct kind ensures the object is treated appropriately throughout
the GraphQL and backend architecture.

### version {#L3}

The `version` field indicates which version of the model structure is being used. This ensures that the model’s
structure follows a specific schema or format, which can evolve over time. For instance, versioning allows backward
compatibility and smooth transitions when new features or changes are introduced. Here, we are using version `v1` of the
model's structure.

### definition.name {#L5}

The `definition.name` field specifies the name of the model, representing the collection of data objects within it. This
is a unique identifier for the model and is typically used in the backend or GraphQL API to refer to the underlying
data. This name must be meaningful and aligned with the domain or the data it represents, as it is used in both queries
and mutations.

### definition.objectType {#L6}

The `definition.objectType` field defines the type of objects contained within this model. In this example, it refers to
the model being used in the GraphQL API and backend system. This field helps enforce consistency in how data is
accessed, manipulated, and returned. The `objectType` is typically a custom name that reflects the logical structure of
the data.

### definition.source.dataConnectorName {#L8}

The `definition.source.dataConnectorName` field identifies the data connector responsible for linking the model to the
actual data source, such as a PostgreSQL database or a MongoDB collection. This ensures that the model is tied to the
correct data backend, facilitating access to the underlying data through the appropriate protocols.

### definition.source.collection {#L9}

The `definition.source.collection` field specifies the exact collection or table in the data source that this model maps
to. In systems like MongoDB, this could be a collection of documents, while in relational databases like PostgreSQL,
this would correspond to a table. The collection defines the actual storage and retrieval mechanism for the data
objects.

### definition.filterExpressionType {#L10}

The `definition.filterExpressionType` field specifies the type used for filtering the model’s data in GraphQL queries.
This allows clients to apply filters to data retrieval, such as querying users by a specific property like `email` or
`createdAt`. The expression type defines the rules and structure that the filter must follow to ensure valid queries.

### definition.orderableFields {#L11-23}

The `definition.orderableFields` field lists the fields that can be used to sort the data in the model. For example,
fields like `id`, `name`, `email`, and `createdAt` are orderable, meaning the API allows the client to specify how
results should be ordered when querying the data, such as sorting by `createdAt` in ascending or descending order. This
is essential for efficient querying and pagination in large datasets.

### definition.graphql.selectMany.queryRootField {#L12}

The `definition.graphql.selectMany.queryRootField` field specifies the root field in the GraphQL API for querying
multiple objects of this model. It defines how to retrieve a collection of objects rather than a single one. If removed,
the ability to query and return an array of this model would be disabled, limiting the user to only single-instance
queries. This is crucial for retrieving large datasets or lists of users, for example.

### definition.graphql.selectUniques {#L13}

The `definition.graphql.selectUniques` field defines unique query root fields used to retrieve a single unique object in
GraphQL. These fields, such as `usersById`, help query individual objects based on unique identifiers like `id`.
Removing this field would disable the ability to query specific instances, which is critical for scenarios where a
single data object, such as a user profile, must be retrieved directly.

### definition.graphql.orderByExpressionType {#L14}

The `definition.graphql.orderByExpressionType` field defines the type used for specifying how to order data when
querying this model in GraphQL. This type controls the sorting mechanism, allowing the client to request data in a
specific order, such as by `name` or `createdAt`. Proper ordering is essential for effective data presentation and
interaction in most applications.
