docs/help/policies/versioning.mdx, before:

---
description: The version support policy for Hasura GraphQL Engine
sidebar_label: Version Support Policy
sidebar_position: 1
keywords:
  - version
  - support
---

# Hasura Version Support Policy

## Releases and support

Hasura DDN releases its software via independently versioned components, such as:

- **Engine**
- **Connectors**
- **CLI**

Each of these components is released independently. While they do not have "versioned" releases as a unified product,
their individual versions are critical for ensuring compatibility and understanding what to use and upgrade. Versions
for the CLI and connectors follow semantic versioning:

- **Major versions** may include incompatible or breaking changes.
- **Minor versions** introduce new functionality and bug fixes in a backwards-compatible manner.
- **Patch versions** provide backwards-compatible bug fixes.

:::info calver vs. semver

The **Engine** utilizes [calver (calendar versioning)](https://calver.org/) instead of semver, with versions aligned to
the year, month, and date of the release. This approach provides clarity on the recency of releases.

:::

### When to upgrade a component

Managing independently versioned components offers flexibility but requires careful planning to ensure compatibility and
functionality. Follow these guidelines to decide when and how to upgrade:

1. **Engine**:

   - **When to upgrade**: Upgrade when new features, performance improvements, or critical bug fixes are introduced in
     the release notes.
   - **Why it matters**: The Engine is the core of your GraphQL API, and updates may introduce new capabilities or
     optimizations.

2. **Connectors**:

   - **When to upgrade**: Upgrade when your current connector version does not support features or updates in the
     Engine. Verify compatibility using the connector release notes.
   - **Why it matters**: Connectors ensure seamless integration with your data sources, and outdated versions may lead
     to errors or limited functionality.

3. **CLI**:
   - **When to upgrade**: Upgrade when new commands, workflows, or fixes are introduced, or when compatibility with the
     Engine or connectors is required.
   - **Why it matters**: The CLI is your primary tool for automation and deployment. Staying up-to-date ensures you can
     use all supported features effectively.

#### Example: Coordinating component upgrades

Imagine the Engine releases a new feature in version `2024.07.10`. Before upgrading, check the release notes for:

- Supported connectors for this version of the Engine.
- Required CLI versions to use the new Engine capabilities.

**Step-by-step upgrade process:**

1. Review the [Hasura Changelog](https://hasura.io/changelog) for details about the new Engine version.
2. Cross-check connector and CLI release notes to confirm compatibility with the new Engine version.
3. Upgrade the Engine first, followed by connectors and CLI, in that order, to maintain compatibility and minimize
   disruptions.

## Reporting bugs and requesting fixes

Hasura is committed to providing enterprise-grade reliability and support to ensure your business operates seamlessly.
For bug reporting and resolution, the following process ensures efficiency and transparency:

1. **Reporting Bugs**:

   - Bugs can be reported through the [Hasura Support Portal](https://support.hasura.io/hc/en-us/requests/new).
   - Customers are encouraged to provide detailed descriptions, logs, and replication steps to help expedite resolution.

2. **Bug Triage and Prioritization**:

   - Reported issues are triaged based on severity and impact, prioritizing critical bugs that affect system security,
     availability, or functionality.
   - Issues impacting production environments are escalated for immediate attention.

3. **Bug Fix Releases**:
   - Fixes for critical issues are rolled out as patch updates. Non-critical issues are included in the subsequent minor
     or major releases.
   - Customers are notified through release notes, the [Hasura Changelog](https://hasura.io/changelog), and direct
     communication for mission-critical updates.

## Security updates and communication

Security is a top priority for Hasura. To maintain the integrity of your systems, we adhere to the following practices:

1. **Proactive Security Patching**:

   - Vulnerabilities are addressed promptly with targeted patch updates.
   - Security patches are backward-compatible and applied to supported versions.

2. **Customer Communication**:

   - Security updates are communicated directly to enterprise customers through our Customer Success team and email
     notifications.
   - Detailed documentation and guidance are provided to ensure smooth implementation of critical updates.

## Rolling out updates

Hasura ensures a seamless update experience for enterprise customers by following these principles:

1. **Pre-Release Testing**:

   - Updates are rigorously tested across supported versions and environments to minimize disruption.

2. **Documentation and Support**:
   - Comprehensive release notes and upgrade guides accompany every update.
   - Our support team is available to assist with planning and executing updates, ensuring minimal impact on operations.

Commit message:

Add note for compat config

docs/help/policies/versioning.mdx, after:

---
description: The version support policy for Hasura GraphQL Engine
sidebar_label: Version Support Policy
sidebar_position: 1
keywords:
  - version
  - support
---

# Hasura Version Support Policy

## Releases and support

Hasura DDN releases its software via independently versioned components, such as:

- **Engine**
- **Connectors**
- **CLI**

Each of these components is released independently. While they do not have "versioned" releases as a unified product,
their individual versions are critical for ensuring compatibility and understanding what to use and upgrade. Versions
for the CLI and connectors follow semantic versioning:

- **Major versions** may include incompatible or breaking changes.
- **Minor versions** introduce new functionality and bug fixes in a backwards-compatible manner.
- **Patch versions** provide backwards-compatible bug fixes.

:::info calver vs. semver

The **Engine** utilizes [calver (calendar versioning)](https://calver.org/) instead of semver, with versions aligned to
the year, month, and date of the release. This approach provides clarity on the recency of releases.

:::

### When to upgrade a component

Managing independently versioned components offers flexibility but requires careful planning to ensure compatibility and
functionality. Follow these guidelines to decide when and how to upgrade:

1. **Engine**:

   - **When to upgrade**: Upgrade when new features, performance improvements, or critical bug fixes are introduced in
     the release notes.
   - **Compatibility details**: The Engine utilizes a `CompatibilityConfig` object that defines the compatibility
     configuration of the Hasura metadata. Learn more [here](/supergraph-modeling/compatibility-config.mdx).
   - **Why it matters**: The Engine is the core of your GraphQL API, and updates may introduce new capabilities or
     optimizations.

2. **Connectors**:

   - **When to upgrade**: Upgrade when your current connector version does not support features or updates in the
     Engine. Verify compatibility using the connector release notes.
   - **Why it matters**: Connectors ensure seamless integration with your data sources, and outdated versions may lead
     to errors or limited functionality.

3. **CLI**:
   - **When to upgrade**: Upgrade when new commands, workflows, or fixes are introduced, or when compatibility with the
     Engine or connectors is required.
   - **Why it matters**: The CLI is your primary tool for automation and deployment. Staying up-to-date ensures you can
     use all supported features effectively.

#### Example: Coordinating component upgrades

Imagine the Engine releases a new feature in version `2024.07.10`. Before upgrading, check the release notes for:

- Supported connectors for this version of the Engine.
- Required CLI versions to use the new Engine capabilities.

**Step-by-step upgrade process:**

1. Review the [Hasura Changelog](https://hasura.io/changelog) for details about the new Engine version.
2. Cross-check connector and CLI release notes to confirm compatibility with the new Engine version.
3. Upgrade the Engine first, followed by connectors and CLI, in that order, to maintain compatibility and minimize
   disruptions.

## Reporting bugs and requesting fixes

Hasura is committed to providing enterprise-grade reliability and support to ensure your business operates seamlessly.
For bug reporting and resolution, the following process ensures efficiency and transparency:

1. **Reporting Bugs**:

   - Bugs can be reported through the [Hasura Support Portal](https://support.hasura.io/hc/en-us/requests/new).
   - Customers are encouraged to provide detailed descriptions, logs, and replication steps to help expedite resolution.

2. **Bug Triage and Prioritization**:

   - Reported issues are triaged based on severity and impact, prioritizing critical bugs that affect system security,
     availability, or functionality.
   - Issues impacting production environments are escalated for immediate attention.

3. **Bug Fix Releases**:
   - Fixes for critical issues are rolled out as patch updates. Non-critical issues are included in the subsequent minor
     or major releases.
   - Customers are notified through release notes, the [Hasura Changelog](https://hasura.io/changelog), and direct
     communication for mission-critical updates.

## Security updates and communication

Security is a top priority for Hasura. To maintain the integrity of your systems, we adhere to the following practices:

1. **Proactive Security Patching**:

   - Vulnerabilities are addressed promptly with targeted patch updates.
   - Security patches are backward-compatible and applied to supported versions.

2. **Customer Communication**:

   - Security updates are communicated directly to enterprise customers through our Customer Success team and email
     notifications.
   - Detailed documentation and guidance are provided to ensure smooth implementation of critical updates.

## Rolling out updates

Hasura ensures a seamless update experience for enterprise customers by following these principles:

1. **Pre-Release Testing**:

   - Updates are rigorously tested across supported versions and environments to minimize disruption.

2. **Documentation and Support**:
   - Comprehensive release notes and upgrade guides accompany every update.
   - Our support team is available to assist with planning and executing updates, ensuring minimal impact on operations.
