docs/reference/connectors/sqlserver/configuration.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: Configuration
description:
  "Reference documentation for the setup process for the Hasura SQL Server connector, including connection URI details,
  and native queries."
keywords:
  - sqlserver
  - configuration
---

# Configuration Reference

## Introduction

The configuration is a metadata object that lists all the database entities — such as tables — that the data connector
has to know about in order to serve queries. It never changes during the lifetime of the data connector service
instance. When your database schema changes you will have to update the configuration accordingly, see
[updating with introspection](#updating-with-introspection).

## Structure

The configuration object is a JSON object with the following fields:

```json
{
  "version": 1,
  "mssql_connection_string": {
    "variable": "CONNECTION_URI"
  },
  "metadata": {
    "tables": {},
    "nativeQueries": {},
    "nativeMutations": {},
    "aggregateFunctions": {},
    "comparisonOperators": {},
    "storedProcedures": {}
  }
}
```

### Property: Version

Version of the configuration file used in the project.

### Property: MSSQL Connection String

The `connectionUri` field indicates the uri of the database which the connector will be querying. This can be given
either as a literal value, or sourced from an environment variable (to help with sound credentials storage for
instance).

**Examples:**

```yaml
"connectionUri": "Server=<Hostname>,<port>;Uid=<username>;Database=<databasename>;Pwd=<password>"
```

```yaml
"connectionUri": { "variable": "CONNECTION_URI" }
```

## Property: Metadata

The metadata section collects declarations of all the database entities that are known to the data connector.

### `tables`

The `tables` field collects all the tables and views, and the collection name that will be used for each of them.

Consult the [json schema reference][Configuration JSON Schema] for details.

**Example**

```yaml
"tables":
  {
    "Album": // Exposed collection name
      {
         "schemaName": "dbo",
        "tableName": "Album", // The actual name of the table in the database
        "columns":
          {
            "AlbumId": // The exposed field name
              {
                "name": "AlbumId", // The actual name of the column in the table
                "type": "int",
                "nullable": "nonNullable",
                "description": null,
              },
            "ArtistId":
              {
                "name": "ArtistId",
                "type": "int",
                "nullable": "nonNullable",
                "description": null,
              },
            "Title":
              {
                "name": "Title",
                "type": "nvarchar",
                "nullable": "nonNullable",
                "description": null,
              },
          },
        "uniquenessConstraints": { "PK_Album": ["AlbumId"] },
        "foreignRelations":
          {
            "FK_AlbumArtistId":
              {
                "foreignTable": "Artist",
                "columnMapping": {
                    "ArtistId": "ArtistId" // Column of this table : Column of the referenced table
                }
              },
          },
        "description": null,
      },
  }
```

### `nativeQueries`

Native Queries collect user-specified SQL queries that that may become either queryable collections in the generated
connector schema.

This is a JSON object containing key-value pairs of Native Queries to be used in the data connector.

Example:

```json
{
  "native_query_inline": {
    "sql": {
      "parts": [
        {
          "type": "text",
          "value": "SELECT 1 AS result FROM DUAL"
        }
      ]
    },
    "columns": {
      "result": {
        "type": "named",
        "name": "INT"
      }
    },
    "arguments": {},
    "description": ""
  },
  "ArtistById_parameterized": {
    "sql": {
      "parts": [
        {
          "type": "text",
          "value": "SELECT * FROM CHINOOK.ARTIST WHERE ARTISTID = "
        },
        {
          "type": "parameter",
          "value": "ARTISTID"
        }
      ]
    },
    "columns": {
      "ARTISTID": {
        "type": "named",
        "name": "INT"
      },
      "NAME": {
        "type": "nullable",
        "underlying_type": {
          "type": "named",
          "name": "STRING"
        }
      }
    },
    "arguments": {
      "ARTISTID": {
        "description": null,
        "type": {
          "type": "named",
          "name": "INT"
        }
      }
    },
    "description": null,
    "isProcedure": false
  }
}
```

### `nativeMutations`

Native Mutations collect user-specified SQL queries that that may become mutations in the generated connector schema.

This is a JSON object containing key-value pairs of Native Mutations to be used in the data connector.

```
{
  "nativeMutations": {
    "insert_artist_and_return_id": {
      "sql": "INSERT INTO [dbo].[Artist] (ArtistId, Name) OUTPUT inserted.*  VALUES ({{ArtistId}}, {{Name}})",
      "columns": {
        "ArtistId": {
          "name": "ArtistId",
          "type": "int",
          "nullable": "nonNullable",
          "description": null
        },
        "Name": {
          "name": "Name",
          "type": "varchar",
          "nullable": "nullable",
          "description": null,
          "castAs": "varchar(100)"
        }
      },
      "arguments": {
        "ArtistId": {
          "name": "ArtistId",
          "type": "int",
          "nullable": "nonNullable",
          "description": null
        },
        "Name": {
          "name": "Name",
          "type": "varchar",
          "nullable": "nullable",
          "description": null
        }
      },
      "description": null
    }
  }
}
```

### `aggregateFunctions`

The `aggregateFunctions` field captures the aggregate funtions associated with the scalar types present in the data
connector schema.

The introspection process will attempt to ensure that only relevant types that actually appear in collection fields or
input argument appear in the metadata.

**Example**

```yaml
"aggregateFunctions":
  {
    "bigint":
      {
        "APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT": { "returnType": "bigint" },
        "AVG": { "returnType": "bigint" },
        "COUNT": { "returnType": "int" },
        "COUNT_BIG": { "returnType": "bigint" },
        "MAX": { "returnType": "bigint" },
        "MIN": { "returnType": "bigint" },
        "STDEV": { "returnType": "float" },
        "STDEVP": { "returnType": "float" },
        "SUM": { "returnType": "bigint" },
        "VAR": { "returnType": "float" },
        "VARP": { "returnType": "float" },
      },
  }
```

### `comparisonOperators`

The `comparisonOperators` field captures the comparision operators associated with the scalar types present in the data
connector schema.

The introspection process will attempt to ensure that only relevant types that actually appear in collection fields or
input argument appear in the metadata.

**Example**

```yaml
"comparisonOperators":
  {
    "bigint":
      {
        "_eq": { "operatorName": "=", "argumentType": "bigint", "operatorKind": "equal" },
        "_gt": { "operatorName": ">", "argumentType": "bigint", "operatorKind": "custom" },
        "_gte": { "operatorName": ">=", "argumentType": "bigint", "operatorKind": "custom" },
        "_in": { "operatorName": "IN", "argumentType": "bigint", "operatorKind": "in" },
        "_lt": { "operatorName": "<", "argumentType": "bigint", "operatorKind": "custom" },
        "_lte": { "operatorName": "<=", "argumentType": "bigint", "operatorKind": "custom" },
        "_neq": { "operatorName": "!=", "argumentType": "bigint", "operatorKind": "custom" },
      },
  }
```

A comparison operator is any function that takes two arguments and returns a `bool` value. An operator is recorded under
the scalar type declaration of its first argument.

### `storedProcedures`

This is a JSON object containing key-value pairs of Stored Procedures to be used in the data connector.

Example

```
{
  "storedProcedures": {
    "GetArtistsByName": {
      "name": "GetArtistsByName",
      "schema": "dbo",
      "arguments": {
        "Name": {
          "name": "Name",
          "type": "varchar",
          "nullable": "nullable",
          "isOutput": false,
          "description": null
        }
      },
      "returns": {
        "CustomerId": {
          "name": "CustomerId",
          "type": "int",
          "nullable": "nonNullable",
          "description": null
        },
        "Phone": {
          "name": "Phone",
          "type": "varchar",
          "nullable": "nonNullable",
          "description": null
        },
        "TotalPurchases": {
          "name": "TotalPurchases",
          "type": "int",
          "nullable": "nonNullable",
          "description": null
        }
      },
      "description": null
    }
  }
}
```

## Updating with introspection

Whenever the schema of your database changes you will need to update your data connector configuration accordingly to
reflect those changes.

Running `update` in a configuration directory will do the following:

- Connect to the database with the specified `mssql_connection_string`, and then overwrite all data in the `tables`
  field

- Fill in default values for any fields absent from the configuration

Commit message:

Add Native Operations docs for SQL Server (#949)
Co-authored-by: pranshi06 <85474619+pranshi06@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Karthikeyan C <karthikeyan@hasura.io>

docs/reference/connectors/sqlserver/configuration.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: Configuration
description:
  "Reference documentation for the setup process for the Hasura SQL Server connector, including connection URI details,
  and native queries."
keywords:
  - sqlserver
  - connector
  - configuration
---

# Configuration Reference

## Introduction

The configuration defines how the Hasura SQL Server connector interacts with your database. It specifies:

- Database connection details
- Tables and views to expose
- Custom queries and mutations
- Available functions and procedures

The configuration remains static during the connector's runtime. When your database schema changes, you'll need to
update the configuration through [introspection](#updating-with-introspection).

## Configuration Structure

The configuration is a JSON object with the following structure:

```json
{
  "version": 1,
  "mssql_connection_string": {
    "variable": "CONNECTION_URI"
  },
  "metadata": {
    "tables": {},
    "nativeQueries": {},
    "nativeMutations": {},
    "aggregateFunctions": {},
    "comparisonOperators": {},
    "storedProcedures": {}
  }
}
```

### Property: Version

Version of the configuration file used in the project.

### Property: MSSQL Connection String

The `connectionUri` field indicates the uri of the database which the connector will be querying. This can be given
either as a literal value, or sourced from an environment variable (to help with sound credentials storage for
instance).

**Examples:**

```yaml
"connectionUri": "Server=<Hostname>,<port>;Uid=<username>;Database=<databasename>;Pwd=<password>"
```

```yaml
"connectionUri": { "variable": "CONNECTION_URI" }
```

## Property: Metadata

The metadata section collects declarations of all the database entities that are known to the data connector.

### `tables`

The `tables` field collects all the tables and views, and the collection name that will be used for each of them.

Consult the [json schema reference][Configuration JSON Schema] for details.

**Example**

```yaml
"tables":
  {
    "Album": // Exposed collection name
      {
         "schemaName": "dbo",
        "tableName": "Album", // The actual name of the table in the database
        "columns":
          {
            "AlbumId": // The exposed field name
              {
                "name": "AlbumId", // The actual name of the column in the table
                "type": "int",
                "nullable": "nonNullable",
                "description": null,
              },
            "ArtistId":
              {
                "name": "ArtistId",
                "type": "int",
                "nullable": "nonNullable",
                "description": null,
              },
            "Title":
              {
                "name": "Title",
                "type": "nvarchar",
                "nullable": "nonNullable",
                "description": null,
              },
          },
        "uniquenessConstraints": { "PK_Album": ["AlbumId"] },
        "foreignRelations":
          {
            "FK_AlbumArtistId":
              {
                "foreignTable": "Artist",
                "columnMapping": {
                    "ArtistId": "ArtistId" // Column of this table : Column of the referenced table
                }
              },
          },
        "description": null,
      },
  }
```

### `nativeQueries`

Native Queries collect user-specified SQL queries that that may become either queryable collections in the generated
connector schema.

This is a JSON object containing key-value pairs of Native Queries to be used in the data connector.

Example:

```json
{
  "native_query_inline": {
    "sql": {
      "parts": [
        {
          "type": "text",
          "value": "SELECT 1 AS result FROM DUAL"
        }
      ]
    },
    "columns": {
      "result": {
        "type": "named",
        "name": "INT"
      }
    },
    "arguments": {},
    "description": ""
  },
  "ArtistById_parameterized": {
    "sql": {
      "parts": [
        {
          "type": "text",
          "value": "SELECT * FROM CHINOOK.ARTIST WHERE ARTISTID = "
        },
        {
          "type": "parameter",
          "value": "ARTISTID"
        }
      ]
    },
    "columns": {
      "ARTISTID": {
        "type": "named",
        "name": "INT"
      },
      "NAME": {
        "type": "nullable",
        "underlying_type": {
          "type": "named",
          "name": "STRING"
        }
      }
    },
    "arguments": {
      "ARTISTID": {
        "description": null,
        "type": {
          "type": "named",
          "name": "INT"
        }
      }
    },
    "description": null,
    "isProcedure": false
  }
}
```

### `nativeMutations`

Native Mutations collect user-specified SQL queries that that may become mutations in the generated connector schema.

This is a JSON object containing key-value pairs of Native Mutations to be used in the data connector.

```
{
  "nativeMutations": {
    "insert_artist_and_return_id": {
      "sql": "INSERT INTO [dbo].[Artist] (ArtistId, Name) OUTPUT inserted.*  VALUES ({{ArtistId}}, {{Name}})",
      "columns": {
        "ArtistId": {
          "name": "ArtistId",
          "type": "int",
          "nullable": "nonNullable",
          "description": null
        },
        "Name": {
          "name": "Name",
          "type": "varchar",
          "nullable": "nullable",
          "description": null,
          "castAs": "varchar(100)"
        }
      },
      "arguments": {
        "ArtistId": {
          "name": "ArtistId",
          "type": "int",
          "nullable": "nonNullable",
          "description": null
        },
        "Name": {
          "name": "Name",
          "type": "varchar",
          "nullable": "nullable",
          "description": null
        }
      },
      "description": null
    }
  }
}
```

### `aggregateFunctions`

The `aggregateFunctions` field captures the aggregate funtions associated with the scalar types present in the data
connector schema.

The introspection process will attempt to ensure that only relevant types that actually appear in collection fields or
input argument appear in the metadata.

**Example**

```yaml
"aggregateFunctions":
  {
    "bigint":
      {
        "APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT": { "returnType": "bigint" },
        "AVG": { "returnType": "bigint" },
        "COUNT": { "returnType": "int" },
        "COUNT_BIG": { "returnType": "bigint" },
        "MAX": { "returnType": "bigint" },
        "MIN": { "returnType": "bigint" },
        "STDEV": { "returnType": "float" },
        "STDEVP": { "returnType": "float" },
        "SUM": { "returnType": "bigint" },
        "VAR": { "returnType": "float" },
        "VARP": { "returnType": "float" },
      },
  }
```

### `comparisonOperators`

The `comparisonOperators` field captures the comparision operators associated with the scalar types present in the data
connector schema.

The introspection process will attempt to ensure that only relevant types that actually appear in collection fields or
input argument appear in the metadata.

**Example**

```yaml
"comparisonOperators":
  {
    "bigint":
      {
        "_eq": { "operatorName": "=", "argumentType": "bigint", "operatorKind": "equal" },
        "_gt": { "operatorName": ">", "argumentType": "bigint", "operatorKind": "custom" },
        "_gte": { "operatorName": ">=", "argumentType": "bigint", "operatorKind": "custom" },
        "_in": { "operatorName": "IN", "argumentType": "bigint", "operatorKind": "in" },
        "_lt": { "operatorName": "<", "argumentType": "bigint", "operatorKind": "custom" },
        "_lte": { "operatorName": "<=", "argumentType": "bigint", "operatorKind": "custom" },
        "_neq": { "operatorName": "!=", "argumentType": "bigint", "operatorKind": "custom" },
      },
  }
```

A comparison operator is any function that takes two arguments and returns a `bool` value. An operator is recorded under
the scalar type declaration of its first argument.

### `storedProcedures`

This is a JSON object containing key-value pairs of Stored Procedures to be used in the data connector.

Example

```
{
  "storedProcedures": {
    "GetArtistsByName": {
      "name": "GetArtistsByName",
      "schema": "dbo",
      "arguments": {
        "Name": {
          "name": "Name",
          "type": "varchar",
          "nullable": "nullable",
          "isOutput": false,
          "description": null
        }
      },
      "returns": {
        "CustomerId": {
          "name": "CustomerId",
          "type": "int",
          "nullable": "nonNullable",
          "description": null
        },
        "Phone": {
          "name": "Phone",
          "type": "varchar",
          "nullable": "nonNullable",
          "description": null
        },
        "TotalPurchases": {
          "name": "TotalPurchases",
          "type": "int",
          "nullable": "nonNullable",
          "description": null
        }
      },
      "description": null
    }
  }
}
```

## Updating with introspection

Whenever the schema of your database changes you will need to update your data connector configuration accordingly to
reflect those changes.

Running `update` in a configuration directory will do the following:

- Connect to the database with the specified `mssql_connection_string`, and then overwrite all data in the `tables`
  field

- Fill in default values for any fields absent from the configuration
