docs/plugins/restified-endpoints/how-to.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: How to Configure the RESTified Endpoints Plugin
description: "Learn how to configure the RESTified Endpoints plugin to add RESTified GraphQL endpoints to DDN."
keywords:
  - hasura plugins
  - plugins
  - engine plugins
  - custom execution
  - custom endpoints
  - custom handlers
  - restified endpoints
  - restified graphql
seoFrontMatterUpdated: false
---

# How to Configure the RESTified Endpoints Plugin

## Introduction

The [RESTified GraphQL endpoints plugin](https://github.com/hasura/engine-plugin-restified-endpoint) allows you to add
RESTified GraphQL endpoints to DDN. This can be used to add custom REST endpoints to DDN that would execute specified
GraphQL query on the DDN GraphQL API and return the response.

:::info We're using Cloudflare Wrangler

In this example, we're using Cloudflare Wrangler to deploy our plugin as a Cloudflare Worker. However, you can use any
other tool or service that hosts HTTPS services. You can get started with Wrangler
[here](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/).

:::

## Step 1. Create a new plugin project

Create a new Cloudflare Worker project using the `create-cloudflare` command with the
[`restified-endpoints` plugin template](https://github.com/hasura/engine-plugin-restified-endpoint):

```bash
npx create-cloudflare@latest restified-endpoints-plugin --template https://github.com/hasura/engine-plugin-restified-endpoint
```

This will create a new project with the required files and dependencies.

## Step 2. Install dependencies

Navigate to the new directory and install the dependencies.

```bash
cd restified-endpoints-plugin
npm install
```

Start the local development server.

```bash
npm start
```

## Step 3. Add the plugin configuration

We'll let the engine know about the plugin and to execute it as a pre-route plugin by creating a new metadata file. In
your `global` subgraph's metadata directory, create a new file named `restified-endpoints.hml` and add the following
configuration.

```yaml
kind: LifecyclePluginHook
version: v1
definition:
  pre: route
  name: restified_endpoints
  url:
    valueFromEnv: RESTIFIED_ENDPOINTS_URL
  config:
    matchPath: "/v1/api/rest/*"
    matchMethods: ["GET", "POST"]
    request:
      method: GET
      headers:
        forward:
          - Authorization
          - x-hasura-role
          - x-hasura-ddn-token
        additional:
          hasura-m-auth:
            valueFromEnv: M_AUTH_KEY
      rawRequest:
        path: {}
        query: {}
        method: {}
        body: {}
    response:
      headers:
        additional:
          content-type:
            value: application/json
```

:::tip URL Match

The `matchPath` field is used to match the regex to the request path, while `matchMethods` specifies the HTTP methods to
match. In this example, we're matching all `GET` and `POST` requests to `/v1/api/rest/*`. You can modify these to match
any path and methods (GET/POST/PUT/PATCH/DELETE) you wish.

Also, note that we can not use the pre-defined DDN endpoints (like `/graphql`, `/v1/sql`, `/v1/jsonapi`, `/v1/explain`,
`/healthz` and `/metrics`) in the `matchPath` field.

Moreover, on DDN cloud, for security reasons, only the `/v1/api/rest/*` path is allowed for the pre-route plugin.

:::

:::info Using environment variables

We've used `valueFromEnv` so that we can dynamically and securely add values from our environment variables. You can add
these values to your root-level `.env` and then map them in the `globals` subgraph.yaml file. Alternatively, you can
include raw strings here using `value` instead of `valueFromEnv` and passing the keys.

:::

Next, update the `subgraph.yaml` file to include the metadata file and the environment variables.

```yaml
kind: Subgraph
version: v2
definition:
  name: globals
  ...
  includePaths:
    ...
    - restified-endpoints.hml
  envMapping:
    RESTIFIED_ENDPOINTS_URL:
      fromEnv: RESTIFIED_ENDPOINTS_URL
    M_AUTH_KEY:
      fromEnv: M_AUTH_KEY
```

Finally, we need to add the environment variables to the `.env` file.

```bash
RESTIFIED_ENDPOINTS_URL="http://local.hasura.dev:8787"
M_AUTH_KEY="your-strong-m-auth-key"
```

:::tip M-Auth Key

The `hasura-m-auth` header is a custom header that is used to authenticate the requests to the allowlist plugin. You can
use any strong key here to authenticate the plugin. DDN will automatically add this header to the requests to the
plugin. Also, make sure to update the `src/config.ts` file (in step 5) with the same key.

:::

## Step 4. Create a new build for local development

Create a new supergraph build.

```bash
ddn supergraph build local
```

Start the console for the local supergraph.

```bash
ddn console --local
```

You can now test the plugin by making a request to the RESTified GraphQL endpoints defined in the plugin's
configuration.

## Step 5. Update the plugin config

Update the `src/config.ts` file with the RESTified GraphQL endpoints that you want to add.

```typescript
export const Config = {
  graphqlServer: {
    headers: {
      additional: {
        "Content-Type": "application/json",
      },
      // Please make sure to forward the authentication headers here
      forward: ["hasura_cloud_pat", "x-hasura-ddn-token"],
    },
  },
  headers: {
    "hasura-m-auth": "your-strong-m-auth-key",
  },
  restifiedEndpoints: [
    ...,
    {
      path: "/v1/api/rest/users",
      methods: ["GET", "POST"],
      query: `
        query MyQuery($limit: Int = 10, $offset: Int = 0) {
          Users(limit: $limit, offset: $offset) {
            Name
          }
        }
      `,
    }
  ],
};
```

:::info Hot reloading

The local wrangler development server will automatically reload the plugin when you make changes to the code.

:::

## Step 6. Configure the plugin variables

:::info Setup tracing

To enable tracing for the plugin, you need to update the `wrangler.toml` file with the required configurations. If you
don't want to enable tracing for the plugin, you can skip this step.

:::

In `restified-endpoints-plugin` directory, update the `wrangler.toml` file with the required configurations.

```toml
...
[vars]
OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT = "https://gateway.otlp.hasura.io:443/v1/traces"
OTEL_EXPORTER_PAT = "<PAT>"
GRAPHQL_SERVER_URL = "<DDN_GRAPHQL_SERVER_URL>"
```

Replace `<PAT>` with the Personal Access Token (PAT) for the Hasura Cloud account. You can display this using the
`ddn auth print-access-token` command.

Replace `<DDN_GRAPHQL_SERVER_URL>` with the URL of your DDN GraphQL server. You can find this in the DDN console under
the `Settings > Project Summary` section.

## Step 7. Deploy the plugin

For your plugin to be reachable by your hosted supergraph, we can deploy with any service that hosts HTTPS services.
Here we will use Cloudflare Wrangler to deploy the plugin. The `deploy` command included in your plugin's `package.json`
will do this automatically for you and return the hosted service's URL.

**Note**: Please also update the `wrangler.toml` with your cloud PAT for the tracing to work.

```bash
npm run deploy
```

This will deploy the plugin to Cloudflare Workers and return the URL of the hosted service. Next, update the .env.cloud
file with the URL.

```bash
RESTIFIED_ENDPOINTS_URL="https://<your-deployed-plugin>.workers.dev"
M_AUTH_KEY="your-strong-m-auth-key"
```

## Step 8. Create a new build

Create a new supergraph build on Hasura DDN to check your work in the cloud.

```bash
ddn supergraph build create
```

## Step 9. Apply the build

Apply the build to make it the default one served by your Hasura DDN project endpoint. You can do this from the DDN
console by choosing the build from the `Builds` tab and clicking `Apply Build`.

The engine will execute the plugin for each requests to the RESTified GraphQL endpoints you defined.

Commit message:

Docs: Update RESTified how-to (#955)

docs/plugins/restified-endpoints/how-to.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: How to Configure the RESTified Endpoints Plugin
description: "Learn how to configure the RESTified Endpoints plugin to add RESTified GraphQL endpoints to DDN."
keywords:
  - hasura plugins
  - plugins
  - engine plugins
  - custom execution
  - custom endpoints
  - custom handlers
  - restified endpoints
  - restified graphql
seoFrontMatterUpdated: false
---

# How to Configure the RESTified Endpoints Plugin

## Introduction

The [RESTified GraphQL endpoints plugin](https://github.com/hasura/engine-plugin-restified-endpoint) allows you to add
RESTified GraphQL endpoints to DDN. This can be used to add custom REST endpoints to DDN that would execute specified
GraphQL query on the DDN GraphQL API and return the response.

:::info We're using Cloudflare Wrangler

In this example, we're using Cloudflare Wrangler to deploy our plugin as a Cloudflare Worker. However, you can use any
other tool or service that hosts HTTPS services. You can get started with Wrangler
[here](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/).

:::

## Step 1. Create a new plugin project

Create a new Cloudflare Worker project using the `create-cloudflare` command with the
[`restified-endpoints` plugin template](https://github.com/hasura/engine-plugin-restified-endpoint):

```bash
npx create-cloudflare@latest restified-endpoints-plugin --template https://github.com/hasura/engine-plugin-restified-endpoint
```

This will create a new project with the required files and dependencies.

## Step 2. Install dependencies

Navigate to the new directory and install the dependencies.

```bash
cd restified-endpoints-plugin
npm install
```

Start the local development server.

```bash
npm start
```

## Step 3. Add the plugin configuration

We'll let the engine know about the plugin and to execute it as a pre-route plugin by creating a new metadata file. In
your `global` subgraph's metadata directory, create a new file named `restified-endpoints.hml` and add the following
configuration.

```yaml
kind: LifecyclePluginHook
version: v1
definition:
  pre: route
  name: restified_endpoints
  url:
    valueFromEnv: RESTIFIED_ENDPOINTS_URL
  config:
    matchPath: "/v1/api/rest/*"
    matchMethods: ["GET", "POST"]
    request:
      method: GET
      headers:
        forward:
          - Authorization
          - x-hasura-role
          - x-hasura-ddn-token
        additional:
          hasura-m-auth:
            valueFromEnv: M_AUTH_KEY
      rawRequest:
        path: {}
        query: {}
        method: {}
        body: {}
    response:
      headers:
        additional:
          content-type:
            value: application/json
```

:::tip URL Match

The `matchPath` field is used to match the regex to the request path, while `matchMethods` specifies the HTTP methods to
match. In this example, we're matching all `GET` and `POST` requests to `/v1/api/rest/*`. You can modify these to match
any path and methods (GET/POST/PUT/PATCH/DELETE) you wish.

Also, note that we can not use the pre-defined DDN endpoints (like `/graphql`, `/v1/sql`, `/v1/jsonapi`, `/v1/explain`,
`/healthz` and `/metrics`) in the `matchPath` field.

Moreover, on DDN cloud, for security reasons, only the `/v1/api/rest/*` path is allowed for the pre-route plugin.

:::

:::info Using environment variables

We've used `valueFromEnv` so that we can dynamically and securely add values from our environment variables. You can add
these values to your root-level `.env` and then map them in the `globals` subgraph.yaml file. Alternatively, you can
include raw strings here using `value` instead of `valueFromEnv` and passing the keys.

:::

Next, update the `subgraph.yaml` file to include the environment variables.

```yaml
kind: Subgraph
version: v2
definition:
  name: globals
  ...
  includePaths:
    ...
  envMapping:
    RESTIFIED_ENDPOINTS_URL:
      fromEnv: RESTIFIED_ENDPOINTS_URL
    M_AUTH_KEY:
      fromEnv: M_AUTH_KEY
```

Finally, we need to add the environment variables to the `.env` file.

```bash
RESTIFIED_ENDPOINTS_URL="http://local.hasura.dev:8787"
M_AUTH_KEY="your-strong-m-auth-key"
```

:::tip M-Auth Key

The `hasura-m-auth` header is a custom header that is used to authenticate the requests to the allowlist plugin. You can
use any strong key here to authenticate the plugin. DDN will automatically add this header to the requests to the
plugin. Also, make sure to update the `src/config.ts` file (in step 5) with the same key.

:::

## Step 4. Create a new build for local development

Create a new supergraph build.

```bash
ddn supergraph build local
```

Start the console for the local supergraph.

```bash
ddn console --local
```

You can now test the plugin by making a request to the RESTified GraphQL endpoints defined in the plugin's
configuration.

## Step 5. Update the plugin config

Update the `src/config.ts` file with the RESTified GraphQL endpoints that you want to add.

```typescript
export const Config = {
  graphqlServer: {
    headers: {
      additional: {
        "Content-Type": "application/json",
      },
      // Please make sure to forward the authentication headers here
      forward: ["hasura_cloud_pat", "x-hasura-ddn-token"],
    },
  },
  headers: {
    "hasura-m-auth": "your-strong-m-auth-key",
  },
  restifiedEndpoints: [
    ...,
    {
      path: "/v1/api/rest/users",
      methods: ["GET", "POST"],
      query: `
        query MyQuery($limit: Int = 10, $offset: Int = 0) {
          Users(limit: $limit, offset: $offset) {
            Name
          }
        }
      `,
    }
  ],
};
```

:::info Hot reloading

The local wrangler development server will automatically reload the plugin when you make changes to the code.

:::

## Step 6. Configure the plugin variables

:::info Setup tracing

To enable tracing for the plugin, you need to update the `wrangler.toml` file with the required configurations. If you
don't want to enable tracing for the plugin, you can skip this step.

:::

In `restified-endpoints-plugin` directory, update the `wrangler.toml` file with the required configurations.

```toml
...
[vars]
OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT = "https://gateway.otlp.hasura.io:443/v1/traces"
OTEL_EXPORTER_PAT = "<PAT>"
GRAPHQL_SERVER_URL = "<DDN_GRAPHQL_SERVER_URL>"
```

Replace `<PAT>` with the Personal Access Token (PAT) for the Hasura Cloud account. You can display this using the
`ddn auth print-access-token` command.

Replace `<DDN_GRAPHQL_SERVER_URL>` with the URL of your DDN GraphQL server. You can find this in the DDN console under
the `Settings > Project Summary` section.

## Step 7. Deploy the plugin

For your plugin to be reachable by your hosted supergraph, we can deploy with any service that hosts HTTPS services.
Here we will use Cloudflare Wrangler to deploy the plugin. The `deploy` command included in your plugin's `package.json`
will do this automatically for you and return the hosted service's URL.

**Note**: Please also update the `wrangler.toml` with your cloud PAT for the tracing to work.

```bash
npm run deploy
```

This will deploy the plugin to Cloudflare Workers and return the URL of the hosted service. Next, update the .env.cloud
file with the URL.

```bash
RESTIFIED_ENDPOINTS_URL="https://<your-deployed-plugin>.workers.dev"
M_AUTH_KEY="your-strong-m-auth-key"
```

## Step 8. Create a new build

Create a new supergraph build on Hasura DDN to check your work in the cloud.

```bash
ddn supergraph build create
```

:::info Cloud project required

In order for this command to succeed, you'll need a cloud project paired with your local metadata. If you don't already
have one, you can create one using the CLI.

```sh title="From the root of the project directory, run:"
ddn project init .
```

:::

## Step 9. Apply the build

Apply the build to make it the default one served by your Hasura DDN project endpoint. You can do this from the DDN
console by choosing the build from the `Builds` tab and clicking `Apply Build`.

The engine will execute the plugin for each requests to the RESTified GraphQL endpoints you defined.

```sh title="As in the earlier example, you can test this by navigating to the endpoint for any paths you've set up in your plugin's configuration:"
# E.g., https://profound-applet-5420.ddn.hasura.app/v1/api/rest/users
https://<your_Hasura_DDN_project_url_excluding_graphql>/v1/api/rest/<endpoint_path>
```
