docs/architecture/private/self-hosted.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: Self Hosted
description: "Learn how to self-host your own instance of Hasura DDN."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - enterprise ddn
  - private ddn
---

import Thumbnail from "@site/src/components/Thumbnail";

# Self-Hosted

## Introduction

For customers with strict security and compliance requirements, Private DDN Self-Hosted allows you to host both the
Control Plane and Data Plane on your own infrastructure.

This is a premium offering where the Hasura team will be helping you with setting up the entire DDN Platform
organization-wide.

If you would like access to Private DDN Self-Hosted, please [contact sales](https://hasura.io/contact-us).

## Architecture

In self-hosted mode, the Control Plane and Data Plane are running on customer's cloud account, managed by customer's own
operations team, with the help of the Hasura team. Uptime and reliability of the Data Plane is the responsibility of the
customer's infrastrucure team.

A Kubernetes cluster is required for installing DDN.

<Thumbnail src="/img/deployment/private_ddn_self_hosted.png" alt="Private DDN Architecture Self Hosted" />

## Get started

To get started with Hasura DDN in your own infrastructure, [contact sales](https://hasura.io/contact-us).

Commit message:

Enterprise license on self-hosted (#834)

docs/architecture/private/self-hosted.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: Self Hosted
description: "Learn how to self-host your own instance of Hasura DDN."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - enterprise ddn
  - private ddn
---

import Thumbnail from "@site/src/components/Thumbnail";

# Self-Hosted

## Introduction

For customers with strict security and compliance requirements, Private DDN Self-Hosted allows you to host both the
Control Plane and Data Plane on your own infrastructure.

This is a premium offering where the Hasura team will be helping you with setting up the entire DDN Platform
organization-wide. An enterprise license is required for this offering.

If you would like access to Private DDN Self-Hosted, please [contact sales](https://hasura.io/contact-us).

## Architecture

In self-hosted mode, the Control Plane and Data Plane are running on customer's cloud account, managed by customer's own
operations team, with the help of the Hasura team. Uptime and reliability of the Data Plane is the responsibility of the
customer's infrastrucure team.

A Kubernetes cluster is required for installing DDN.

<Thumbnail src="/img/deployment/private_ddn_self_hosted.png" alt="Private DDN Architecture Self Hosted" />

## Get started

To get started with Hasura DDN in your own infrastructure, [contact sales](https://hasura.io/contact-us).
