docs/deployment/hasura-ddn/ci-cd.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: CI/CD
description: "Set up CI/CD for Hasura DDN projects using any CI/CD platform"
---

# CI/CD

Because the DDN CLI plays the central role in controlling and managing metadata builds and connector deployments, it
allows developers to easily create effective CI/CD pipelines for managing projects, creating and applying builds or
promoting them to another environment.

## Generic CI/CD Setup

The user should follow the following generic implementation steps which we will go through below when setting up CI/CD
for their Hasura DDN projects.

1. Prepare a service account access token.
2. Use a linux environment to run the DDN CLI.
3. Install and login to the DDN CLI.
4. Clone the repo with the DDN supergraph metadata.
5. Check context or use flags.
6. Run DDN CLI commands.

### Step 1: Prepare a service account access token

See the [service account access token section](/project-configuration/project-management/service-accounts.mdx) to learn how to create a service
account access token.

### Step 2: Use a Linux environment to run the DDN CLI

Any service which can provide a Linux-like environment will work, eg: GitHub Actions, GitLab CI, CircleCI, etc.

Indeed, a Windows or macOS environment will work and run the DDN CLI but for CI/CD pipelines, we recommend using a Linux
environment for speed, availability and convenience.

### Step 3: Install and login to the DDN CLI

```sh
curl -L https://graphql-engine-cdn.hasura.io/ddn/cli/v4/get.sh | bash
```

:::info curl

Your environment should already have `curl` installed. If not, you can install it using your package manager. eg:

```sh
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade
sudo apt install curl
curl --version
```

:::

### Step 4: Clone the repo with the DDN supergraph metadata

Clone (or checkout) the repository that contains all of your DDN supergraph metadata. For example, if you have a public
GitHub repository, run:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/<your-org>/<your-repo>.git
```

If your repository is private, you may need a
[GitHub personal access token](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens)
or similar for your git provider to clone it.

```
git clone https://username:<pat>@github.com/<your-account-or-org>/<repo>.git
```

### Step 5: Check context or use flags

Make sure your context is set properly to reference the correct projects, subgraphs, etc., or use the correct flags in
your DDN CLI commands.

You can set your context using the `ddn context set-current-context <context-name>` command. Read more about
[contexts](/project-configuration/project-management/manage-environments.mdx).

You can also of course use specific flags in your DDN CLI commands eg: `--project`, `--supergraph`,
`--base-supergraph-version`, `--log-level`, `--out` to make your commands more explicit.

### Step 6: Run DDN CLI commands

You can now run any DDN CLI commands required in the CI/CD workflow. You will likely be creating builds and applying
them to projects.

```sh
ddn supergraph build create
```

```sh
ddn supergraph build apply <build-id>
```

## GitHub Actions Setup

We have a GitHub Action that you can use to deploy your Hasura DDN projects.
[See here](https://github.com/hasura/ddn-deployment).

Commit message:

[DX-881] Add `--apply` flag documentation to streamline supergraph build and apply process (#943)

docs/deployment/hasura-ddn/ci-cd.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: CI/CD
description: "Set up CI/CD for Hasura DDN projects using any CI/CD platform"
---

# CI/CD

Because the DDN CLI plays the central role in controlling and managing metadata builds and connector deployments, it
allows developers to easily create effective CI/CD pipelines for managing projects, creating and applying builds or
promoting them to another environment.

## Generic CI/CD Setup

The user should follow the following generic implementation steps which we will go through below when setting up CI/CD
for their Hasura DDN projects.

1. Prepare a service account access token.
2. Use a linux environment to run the DDN CLI.
3. Install and login to the DDN CLI.
4. Clone the repo with the DDN supergraph metadata.
5. Check context or use flags.
6. Run DDN CLI commands.

### Step 1: Prepare a service account access token

See the [service account access token section](/project-configuration/project-management/service-accounts.mdx) to learn how to create a service
account access token.

### Step 2: Use a Linux environment to run the DDN CLI

Any service which can provide a Linux-like environment will work, eg: GitHub Actions, GitLab CI, CircleCI, etc.

Indeed, a Windows or macOS environment will work and run the DDN CLI but for CI/CD pipelines, we recommend using a Linux
environment for speed, availability and convenience.

### Step 3: Install and login to the DDN CLI

```sh
curl -L https://graphql-engine-cdn.hasura.io/ddn/cli/v4/get.sh | bash
```

:::info curl

Your environment should already have `curl` installed. If not, you can install it using your package manager. eg:

```sh
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade
sudo apt install curl
curl --version
```

:::

### Step 4: Clone the repo with the DDN supergraph metadata

Clone (or checkout) the repository that contains all of your DDN supergraph metadata. For example, if you have a public
GitHub repository, run:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/<your-org>/<your-repo>.git
```

If your repository is private, you may need a
[GitHub personal access token](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens)
or similar for your git provider to clone it.

```sh
git clone https://username:<pat>@github.com/<your-account-or-org>/<repo>.git
```

### Step 5: Check context or use flags

Make sure your context is set properly to reference the correct projects, subgraphs, etc., or use the correct flags in
your DDN CLI commands.

You can set your context using the `ddn context set-current-context <context-name>` command. Read more about
[contexts](/project-configuration/project-management/manage-environments.mdx).

You can also of course use specific flags in your DDN CLI commands eg: `--project`, `--supergraph`,
`--base-supergraph-version`, `--log-level`, `--out` to make your commands more explicit.

### Step 6: Run DDN CLI commands

You can now run any DDN CLI commands required in the CI/CD workflow. You will likely be creating builds and applying
them to projects.

```sh
ddn supergraph build create
```

```sh
ddn supergraph build apply <build-id>
```

:::tip Optimize your CI/CD pipeline
For a more efficient CI/CD workflow, you can create and apply the supergraph build in a single command using
`ddn supergraph build create --apply`
This reduces the number of CLI commands needed and simplifies your automation scripts.
:::

## GitHub Actions Setup

We have a GitHub Action that you can use to deploy your Hasura DDN projects.
[See here](https://github.com/hasura/ddn-deployment).
