docs/deployment/hasura-ddn/deploy-to-ddn.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: Deploy to DDN
description: "Learn how to deploy your project to Hasura DDN."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - deploy
  - deployment
  - hosting
---

# Deploying your project to Hasura DDN

Deploying your project to Hasura DDN is a simple process and can be done in 3 steps.

## Deployment flow

1. Initialize a project on Hasura DDN.
2. Create a supergraph build on Hasura DDN.
3. Apply the supergraph build to your project on Hasura DDN.

To begin this guide you will need to have a local project set up and running with at least one subgraph and connector.
Check out the [quickstart](/quickstart.mdx) for more information on how to get started.

### Step 1: Create a project on Hasura DDN

```bash title="Initialize a project on Hasura DDN"
ddn project init
```

You can optionally also append a project name to this command.

The CLI will respond with the project name, the subgraph(s) and env file which were created, and a hint to create a
supergraph build.

You now have a project on Hasura DDN with the same subgraphs as you have locally. Currently, the subgraphs are empty.

:::info Create vs Initialize

The `ddn project init` command is similar to `ddn project create` but it also creates the subgraphs and env file for
you. `ddn project create` will only create an empty project and you will need to create the DDN project subgraphs and
local `.env.cloud` file yourself.

:::

### Step 2: Create a supergraph build on Hasura DDN

```bash
ddn supergraph build create
```

This command will create builds for each connector, subgraph, and the supergraph. Each of these can be built
independently but this command will create them all.

The CLI will respond with the build version, the API URL, the Console URL, the PromptQL URL, the Project Name, and a
hint to browse the build on the console.

You can now use the console to explore the supergraph build by browsing to the console URL or by running
`ddn console --build-version <build-version>` command.

The build is not yet the "official" applied API for the project. A project can have multiple builds with their own API
endpoints but only one applied at a time as the "official" API.

```bash
ddn supergraph build apply <build-version>
```

eg:

```bash
ddn supergraph build apply 85b0961544
```

This build is now the "official" applied API for the project and is accessible via the API URL in the output of the
command, via the console, or any client accessing via the API URL.

## Summary

There are many more options and configurations available for deploying your project to Hasura DDN and we have detailed
the simplest and most common flow here.

Commit message:

[DX-881] Add `--apply` flag documentation to streamline supergraph build and apply process (#943)

docs/deployment/hasura-ddn/deploy-to-ddn.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: Deploy to DDN
description: "Learn how to deploy your project to Hasura DDN."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - deploy
  - deployment
  - hosting
---

# Deploying your project to Hasura DDN

Deploying your project to Hasura DDN is a simple process and can be done in 3 steps.

## Deployment flow

1. Initialize a project on Hasura DDN.
2. Create a supergraph build on Hasura DDN.
3. Apply the supergraph build to your project on Hasura DDN.

To begin this guide you will need to have a local project set up and running with at least one subgraph and connector.
Check out the [quickstart](/quickstart.mdx) for more information on how to get started.

### Step 1: Create a project on Hasura DDN

```bash title="Initialize a project on Hasura DDN"
ddn project init
```

You can optionally also append a project name to this command.

The CLI will respond with the project name, the subgraph(s) and env file which were created, and a hint to create a
supergraph build.

You now have a project on Hasura DDN with the same subgraphs as you have locally. Currently, the subgraphs are empty.

:::info Create vs Initialize

The `ddn project init` command is similar to `ddn project create` but it also creates the subgraphs and env file for
you. `ddn project create` will only create an empty project and you will need to create the DDN project subgraphs and
local `.env.cloud` file yourself.

:::

### Step 2: Create a supergraph build on Hasura DDN

```bash
ddn supergraph build create
```

This command will create builds for each connector, subgraph, and the supergraph. Each of these can be built
independently but this command will create them all.

The CLI will respond with the build version, the API URL, the Console URL, the PromptQL URL, the Project Name, and a
hint to browse the build on the console.

You can now use the console to explore the supergraph build by browsing to the console URL or by running
`ddn console --build-version <build-version>` command.

The build is not yet the "official" applied API for the project. A project can have multiple builds with their own API
endpoints but only one applied at a time as the "official" API.

```bash
ddn supergraph build apply <build-version>
```

eg:

```bash
ddn supergraph build apply 85b0961544
```

This build is now the "official" applied API for the project and is accessible via the API URL in the output of the
command, via the console, or any client accessing via the API URL.

:::tip Simplify your deployment
For a more efficient deployment process, you can create and apply the supergraph build in a single command using
`ddn supergraph build create --apply`
:::

## Summary

There are many more options and configurations available for deploying your project to Hasura DDN and we have detailed
the simplest and most common flow here.
