docs/deployment/hasura-ddn/incremental-builds.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: Deploying incrementally
description: "Learn how to deploy your project incrementally to Hasura DDN."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - graphql api
  - quickstart
  - getting started
  - guide
---

# Deploying Incrementally

Incremental deployments give you fine-grained control over the compositions of which versions of connectors, subgraphs,
and eventual supergraph are deployed to Hasura DDN. It is particularly helpful if you have a complex project structure
or need to maintain strict control over which services or subgraphs receive new changes. For example:

- You need to test a new version of a connector in isolation before pushing it out to the rest of your API.
- A single subgraph requires frequent updates, and you don't want to rebuild or redeploy the entire supergraph each
  time.
- Multiple teams work on separate parts of the API, and you only want to incrementally roll out changes to one service
  at a time.

By deploying incrementally, you can control the rollout process, test updates more thoroughly in smaller chunks, and
reduce potential downtime or bugs impacting the rest of your API. If you'd rather deploy everything at once and don't
need granular control, check out the more general approach in our
[Deploy to DDN](/deployment/hasura-ddn/deploy-to-ddn.mdx) guide.

## Building and deploying specific connectors

### Step 1: Create a new build of the connector on Hasura DDN.

To build the connector and have it running on the Hasura DDN infrastructure you can run the following command:

```bash
ddn connector build create --connector <path-to-connector.yaml>
```

The output will include the ConnectorBuild Id, the ConnectorBuild Read URL, the ConnectorBuild Write URL, and the
Authorization Header used to communicate with the connector.

### Step 2: Update the env values

Update the env values for the connector URLs and Authorization Header in the corresponding `.env.cloud` file:

```env
APP_MY_CONNECTOR_CONNECTION_URI="<existing-connection-uri>"
APP_MY_CONNECTOR_AUTHORIZATION_HEADER="<new-authorization-header>"
APP_MY_CONNECTOR_READ_URL="<new-read-url>"
APP_MY_CONNECTOR_WRITE_URL="<new-write-url>"
```

### Step 3: Build the supergraph without building connectors

```bash
ddn supergraph build create --no-build-connectors
```

The build version will be output after the build is complete.

Note that you can also build subgraphs individually without building connectors, see the section on
[building and deploying a specific subgraph build](#build-deploy-subgraph) below.

### Step 4: Deploy the supergraph

```bash
ddn supergraph build apply <build-version>
```

This will apply the build to the supergraph to become the active API.

:::info Resource Limits

Connectors in Hasura DDN request specific memory and CPU allocations for their deployment. Resource limits can only be
modified for [Private DDN](/private-ddn/connector-deployment-resources.mdx). For Public DDN, the resource limits are
fixed to the values below, and cannot be downsized or upscaled.

- **Fixed CPU**: 1 vCPU
- **Fixed RAM**: 2GB

:::

## Building and deploying a specific subgraph {#build-deploy-subgraph}

You can build subgraphs independently too.

### Step 1: Build

```bash
ddn subgraph build create
```

This will create a build of the subgraph and any connectors that are associated with it and output the build version.

As always, this will use the current subgraph set in the `context.yaml` file. You can override this with the
`--subgraph` flag or change subgraph context with `ddn context set subgraph <path-to-subgraph.yaml>`.

:::info Hasura DDN only

There is no local subgraph-only build command.

:::

### Step 2 Option 1: Build the supergraph with the new subgraph build

You can create a build of the rest of the supergraph (with the currently applied supergraph build or a different
specific one) but direct Hasura DDN to use the new specific subgraph build.

```bash title="Build the supergraph with a specific subgraph build and the currenly applied supergraph build"
ddn supergraph build create --subgraph-version <subgraph-name>:<subgraph-build-version> --base-supergraph-on-applied
```

```bash title="Build the supergraph with multiple specific subgraph builds and a specific supergraph build"
  ddn supergraph build create --subgraph-version <subgraph-name>:<subgraph-build-version> --subgraph-version <subgraph-name>:<subgraph-build-version> --base-supergraph-version <supergraph-build-version>
```

This will output the build version and you can now use it for testing or apply the supergraph build to be the active
API.

```bash
ddn supergraph build apply <build-version>
```

You can compose any combination of existing subgraph builds this way to create your supergraph builds.

### Step 2 Option 2: Apply a specific subgraph build to the active API

You can also apply the subgraph build directly to the active API.

```bash
ddn subgraph build apply <build-version>
```

## Summary

You have full control over the composition of your supergraph and can build and deploy subgraphs and connectors
incrementally and independently to compose your supergraph.

Commit message:

add a tip to let users know about new --apply flag

docs/deployment/hasura-ddn/incremental-builds.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: Deploying incrementally
description: "Learn how to deploy your project incrementally to Hasura DDN."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - graphql api
  - quickstart
  - getting started
  - guide
---

# Deploying Incrementally

Incremental deployments give you fine-grained control over the compositions of which versions of connectors, subgraphs,
and eventual supergraph are deployed to Hasura DDN. It is particularly helpful if you have a complex project structure
or need to maintain strict control over which services or subgraphs receive new changes. For example:

- You need to test a new version of a connector in isolation before pushing it out to the rest of your API.
- A single subgraph requires frequent updates, and you don't want to rebuild or redeploy the entire supergraph each
  time.
- Multiple teams work on separate parts of the API, and you only want to incrementally roll out changes to one service
  at a time.

By deploying incrementally, you can control the rollout process, test updates more thoroughly in smaller chunks, and
reduce potential downtime or bugs impacting the rest of your API. If you'd rather deploy everything at once and don't
need granular control, check out the more general approach in our
[Deploy to DDN](/deployment/hasura-ddn/deploy-to-ddn.mdx) guide.

## Building and deploying specific connectors

### Step 1: Create a new build of the connector on Hasura DDN.

To build the connector and have it running on the Hasura DDN infrastructure you can run the following command:

```bash
ddn connector build create --connector <path-to-connector.yaml>
```

The output will include the ConnectorBuild Id, the ConnectorBuild Read URL, the ConnectorBuild Write URL, and the
Authorization Header used to communicate with the connector.

### Step 2: Update the env values

Update the env values for the connector URLs and Authorization Header in the corresponding `.env.cloud` file:

```env
APP_MY_CONNECTOR_CONNECTION_URI="<existing-connection-uri>"
APP_MY_CONNECTOR_AUTHORIZATION_HEADER="<new-authorization-header>"
APP_MY_CONNECTOR_READ_URL="<new-read-url>"
APP_MY_CONNECTOR_WRITE_URL="<new-write-url>"
```

### Step 3: Build the supergraph without building connectors

```bash
ddn supergraph build create --no-build-connectors
```

The build version will be output after the build is complete.

Note that you can also build subgraphs individually without building connectors, see the section on
[building and deploying a specific subgraph build](#build-deploy-subgraph) below.

### Step 4: Deploy the supergraph

```bash
ddn supergraph build apply <build-version>
```

This will apply the build to the supergraph to become the active API.

:::tip Optimize incremental deployments
For a more efficient incremental deployment process, you can create and apply the supergraph build in a single command using
`ddn supergraph build create --no-build-connectors --apply`
:::

:::info Resource Limits

Connectors in Hasura DDN request specific memory and CPU allocations for their deployment. Resource limits can only be
modified for [Private DDN](/private-ddn/connector-deployment-resources.mdx). For Public DDN, the resource limits are
fixed to the values below, and cannot be downsized or upscaled.

- **Fixed CPU**: 1 vCPU
- **Fixed RAM**: 2GB

:::

## Building and deploying a specific subgraph {#build-deploy-subgraph}

You can build subgraphs independently too.

### Step 1: Build

```bash
ddn subgraph build create
```

This will create a build of the subgraph and any connectors that are associated with it and output the build version.

As always, this will use the current subgraph set in the `context.yaml` file. You can override this with the
`--subgraph` flag or change subgraph context with `ddn context set subgraph <path-to-subgraph.yaml>`.

:::info Hasura DDN only

There is no local subgraph-only build command.

:::

### Step 2 Option 1: Build the supergraph with the new subgraph build

You can create a build of the rest of the supergraph (with the currently applied supergraph build or a different
specific one) but direct Hasura DDN to use the new specific subgraph build.

```bash title="Build the supergraph with a specific subgraph build and the currenly applied supergraph build"
ddn supergraph build create --subgraph-version <subgraph-name>:<subgraph-build-version> --base-supergraph-on-applied
```

```bash title="Build the supergraph with multiple specific subgraph builds and a specific supergraph build"
  ddn supergraph build create --subgraph-version <subgraph-name>:<subgraph-build-version> --subgraph-version <subgraph-name>:<subgraph-build-version> --base-supergraph-version <supergraph-build-version>
```

This will output the build version and you can now use it for testing or apply the supergraph build to be the active
API.

```bash
ddn supergraph build apply <build-version>
```

You can compose any combination of existing subgraph builds this way to create your supergraph builds.

### Step 2 Option 2: Apply a specific subgraph build to the active API

You can also apply the subgraph build directly to the active API.

```bash
ddn subgraph build apply <build-version>
```

## Summary

You have full control over the composition of your supergraph and can build and deploy subgraphs and connectors
incrementally and independently to compose your supergraph.
