docs/deployment/hasura-ddn/region-routing.mdx, before:

---
title: Region Routing
sidebar_position: 4
description:
  "Understand how to set up region routing in Hasura DDN to achieve efficient data fetching and lower latency. Benefit
  from optimal database performance and global data access with Hasura."
keywords:
  - multi-region routing
  - region routing
  - hasura
  - postgreSQL
  - data fetching
  - latency
  - geo-routing
  - hasura data connector
  - database optimization
seoFrontMatterUpdated: true
---

# Region Routing

## Introduction

With region routing, you can define the deployment configuration of your data connector for different regions.

For data connectors that connect to a data source, e.g. [PostgreSQL](/how-to-build-with-ddn/with-postgresql.mdx), it is
recommended to deploy the connector in a region closest to the data source to ensure efficient communication between the
connector and the data source.

For other data connectors, e.g. [Typescript](https://hasura.io/connectors/nodejs), it is recommended to deploy the
connector in a region closest to the consumers of the API to ensure efficient communication between the connector and
the Hasura engine.

If you have a distributed data source, with multi-region routing, you can ensure that data is fetched from the data
source closest to the user, thus minimizing latency for the request, improving the performance of your application, and
providing a better user experience.

See the list of supported regions [below](#regions).

## Single-Region Routing

You can modify the `Connector` object as per the highlighted values in the example below to force the deployment of your
data connector to a specific region. If the region is not specified, the connector will be deployed randomly to one of
the [supported regions](#regions).

```yaml title="For example, in my_subgraph/connector/my_connector/connector.yaml:"
kind: Connector
version: v2
definition:
  name: my_connector
  subgraph: my_subgraph
  source: hasura/connector_name:<version>
  context: .
  #highlight-start
  regionConfiguration:
    - region: <region from the list below>
      mode: ReadWrite
      envMapping:
        <CONNECTOR_ENV_VAR>: # e.g. CONNECTION_URI
          fromEnv: <CONNECTOR_ENV_VAR> # e.g. Env Var set as DB read write URL
  #highlight-end
```

## Multi-Region Routing

You can modify the `Connector` object as per the highlighted values in the example below to define the deployment
configuration of your connector across multiple regions.

:::note Currently only supported for PostgreSQL

Multi-region routing is currently supported only for the
[PostgreSQL connector](/how-to-build-with-ddn/with-postgresql.mdx).

Support for other data connectors will be added soon.

:::

```yaml title="For example, in my_subgraph/connector/my_connector/connector.yaml:"
kind: Connector
version: v2
definition:
  name: my_connector
  subgraph: my_subgraph
  source: hasura/connector_name:<version>
  context: .
  #highlight-start
  regionConfiguration:
    - region: <region1: region from the list below>
      mode: ReadWrite
      envMapping:
          <CONNECTOR_ENV_VAR>: # e.g. CONNECTION_URI
              fromEnv: <CONNECTOR_ENV_VAR_REGION_1> # e.g. Env Var set as DB read write replica URL in region1
    - region: <region2: region from the list below>
      mode: ReadOnly
      envMapping:
          <CONNECTOR_ENV_VAR>: # e.g. CONNECTION_URI
              fromEnv: <CONNECTOR_ENV_VAR_REGION_2> # e.g. Env Var set as DB read only replica URL in region2
    - region: <region3: region from the list below>
      mode: ReadOnly
      envMapping:
          <CONNECTOR_ENV_VAR>: # e.g. CONNECTION_URI
              fromEnv: <CONNECTOR_ENV_VAR_REGION_3> # e.g. Env Var set as DB read only replica URL in region3
  #highlight-end
```

## Supported regions {#regions}

Currently, Hasura DDN supports the following regions in GCP for multi-region routing:

- `gcp-asia-south1`
- `gcp-asia-southeast1`
- `gcp-australia-southeast1`
- `gcp-europe-west1`
- `gcp-southamerica-east1`
- `gcp-us-east4`
- `gcp-us-west2`

Commit message:

add deprecation notice for multi-region routing

docs/deployment/hasura-ddn/region-routing.mdx, after:

---
title: Region Routing
sidebar_position: 4
description:
  "Understand how to set up region routing in Hasura DDN to achieve efficient data fetching and lower latency. Benefit
  from optimal database performance and global data access with Hasura."
keywords:
  - multi-region routing
  - region routing
  - hasura
  - postgreSQL
  - data fetching
  - latency
  - geo-routing
  - hasura data connector
  - database optimization
seoFrontMatterUpdated: true
---

# Region Routing

## Introduction

With region routing, you can define the deployment configuration of your data connector for different regions.

For data connectors that connect to a data source, e.g. [PostgreSQL](/how-to-build-with-ddn/with-postgresql.mdx), it is
recommended to deploy the connector in a region closest to the data source to ensure efficient communication between the
connector and the data source.

For other data connectors, e.g. [Typescript](https://hasura.io/connectors/nodejs), it is recommended to deploy the
connector in a region closest to the consumers of the API to ensure efficient communication between the connector and
the Hasura engine.

If you have a distributed data source, with multi-region routing, you can ensure that data is fetched from the data
source closest to the user, thus minimizing latency for the request, improving the performance of your application, and
providing a better user experience.

See the list of supported regions [below](#regions).

## Single-Region Routing

You can modify the `Connector` object as per the highlighted values in the example below to force the deployment of your
data connector to a specific region. If the region is not specified, the connector will be deployed randomly to one of
the [supported regions](#regions).

```yaml title="For example, in my_subgraph/connector/my_connector/connector.yaml:"
kind: Connector
version: v2
definition:
  name: my_connector
  subgraph: my_subgraph
  source: hasura/connector_name:<version>
  context: .
  #highlight-start
  regionConfiguration:
    - region: <region from the list below>
      mode: ReadWrite
      envMapping:
        <CONNECTOR_ENV_VAR>: # e.g. CONNECTION_URI
          fromEnv: <CONNECTOR_ENV_VAR> # e.g. Env Var set as DB read write URL
  #highlight-end
```

## Multi-Region Routing

:::warning Deprecated

This feature is deprecated. For PostgreSQL connectors, use
[dynamic connection routing](/reference/connectors/postgresql/dynamic-connections-tutorial.mdx) instead, which provides
more flexible read/write splitting and load balancing capabilities.

:::

You can modify the `Connector` object as per the highlighted values in the example below to define the deployment
configuration of your connector across multiple regions.

:::note Currently only supported for PostgreSQL

Multi-region routing is currently supported only for the
[PostgreSQL connector](/how-to-build-with-ddn/with-postgresql.mdx).

Support for other data connectors will be added soon.

:::

```yaml title="For example, in my_subgraph/connector/my_connector/connector.yaml:"
kind: Connector
version: v2
definition:
  name: my_connector
  subgraph: my_subgraph
  source: hasura/connector_name:<version>
  context: .
  #highlight-start
  regionConfiguration:
    - region: <region1: region from the list below>
      mode: ReadWrite
      envMapping:
          <CONNECTOR_ENV_VAR>: # e.g. CONNECTION_URI
              fromEnv: <CONNECTOR_ENV_VAR_REGION_1> # e.g. Env Var set as DB read write replica URL in region1
    - region: <region2: region from the list below>
      mode: ReadOnly
      envMapping:
          <CONNECTOR_ENV_VAR>: # e.g. CONNECTION_URI
              fromEnv: <CONNECTOR_ENV_VAR_REGION_2> # e.g. Env Var set as DB read only replica URL in region2
    - region: <region3: region from the list below>
      mode: ReadOnly
      envMapping:
          <CONNECTOR_ENV_VAR>: # e.g. CONNECTION_URI
              fromEnv: <CONNECTOR_ENV_VAR_REGION_3> # e.g. Env Var set as DB read only replica URL in region3
  #highlight-end
```

## Supported regions {#regions}

Currently, Hasura DDN supports the following regions in GCP for multi-region routing:

- `gcp-asia-south1`
- `gcp-asia-southeast1`
- `gcp-australia-southeast1`
- `gcp-europe-west1`
- `gcp-southamerica-east1`
- `gcp-us-east4`
- `gcp-us-west2`
