docs/deployment/private-ddn/data-plane-collaboration.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: Data Plane Collaboration
description: "Learn how to use the Data Plane collaboration feature for Private DDN."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - private ddn
  - dedicated vpc
  - enterprise ddn
seoFrontMatterUpdated: false
---

import Thumbnail from "@site/src/components/Thumbnail";

# DDN Data Plane Collaboration

## Introduction

The Data Plane collaboration feature allows you to manage and facilitate collaboration on the
[Data Plane](/architecture/overview.mdx#data-plane) for which you are an owner. The owner of the Data Plane can invite
other users to collaborate/create projects on the Data Plane. The invited users can create and manage projects on the
Data Plane. This feature enables users to invite, accept, reject, and remove collaborators for multi-team collaboration.

### How to get started with Data Plane collaboration

#### Inviting a collaborator

To invite a user to your Data Plane, you need to open the
[Data Plane Management Dashboard](https://console.hasura.io/data-plane/). The dashboard will show all available Data
Planes. Select the Data Plane for which you have the `owner` role. Click `Invite Collaborator`. Enter the email address
of the user you want to invite and click `Send Invites`. The invited user will receive an email with an invitation link.

<Thumbnail src="/img/deployment/invite_data_plane_collaborator.png" alt="Invite Data Plane Collaborator" />

#### Accepting or rejecting an invitation

The invited user can accept or reject the invitation by clicking on the invitation link received in the email or going
to the [Data Plane Management Dashboard](https://console.hasura.io/data-plane/). The dashboard will show all the invites
received by the user. The user can accept or reject the invitation by clicking `Accept` or `Decline`.

<Thumbnail src="/img/deployment/accept_reject_data_plane_invitation.png" alt="Accept or Reject Data Plane Invitation" />

#### Removing a collaborator

You can remove any Data Plane collaborator by going to the
[Data Plane Management Dashboard](https://console.hasura.io/data-plane/). Select the Data Plane for which you have the
`owner` role, you'll be able to see all the collaborators of the Data Plane. Click `Remove` to remove the collaborator.

<Thumbnail src="/img/deployment/remove_data_plane_collaborator.png" alt="Remove Data Plane Collaborator" />

### Data Plane collaboration permissions

Currently there are only two roles available for Data Plane collaboration:

- `owner`: The owner of the Data Plane has full access to the Data Plane and can invite or remove collaborators.
- `member`: The member of the Data Plane can create projects on the Data Plane and manage them.

### What can a collaborator do?

A collaborator can create projects on the Data Plane and manage them. To create the project in a Data Plane, the
collaborator needs to select the Data Plane while creating the project using the
[Hasura DDN CLI](/deployment/ddn/create-a-project/).

```
ddn project create --data-plane-id <data-plane-id> --plan <plan>
```

Commit message:

Docs: Update private data plane docs (#837)
Co-authored-by: Varun <varun@hasura.io>
Co-authored-by: hasura-bot <accounts@hasura.io>
Co-authored-by: Varun Choudhary <68095256+Varun-Choudhary@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Vaibhav Awachat <awachat@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Aravind Shankar <face11301@gmail.com>

docs/deployment/private-ddn/data-plane-collaboration.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: Add collaborators to a Data Plane
description: "Learn how to use the Data Plane collaboration feature for Private DDN."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - private ddn
  - dedicated vpc
  - enterprise ddn
seoFrontMatterUpdated: false
---

import Thumbnail from "@site/src/components/Thumbnail";

# How to Add Collaborators to a Data Plane

## Introduction

The Data Plane collaboration feature allows you to manage and facilitate collaboration on the
[Data Plane](/architecture/overview.mdx#data-plane) for which you are an owner. The owner of the Data Plane can invite
other users to collaborate/create projects on the Data Plane. The invited users can create and manage projects on the
Data Plane. This feature enables users to invite, accept, reject, and remove collaborators for multi-team collaboration.

## How to get started with Data Plane collaboration

### Inviting a collaborator

To invite a user to your Data Plane, you need to open the
[Data Plane Management Dashboard](https://console.hasura.io/data-plane/). The dashboard will show all available Data
Planes. Select the Data Plane for which you have the `owner` role. Click `Invite Collaborator`. Enter the email address
of the user you want to invite and click `Send Invites`. The invited user will receive an email with an invitation link.

<Thumbnail src="/img/deployment/invite_data_plane_collaborator.png" alt="Invite Data Plane Collaborator" />

### Accepting or rejecting an invitation

The invited user can accept or reject the invitation by clicking on the invitation link received in the email or going
to the [Data Plane Management Dashboard](https://console.hasura.io/data-plane/). The dashboard will show all the invites
received by the user. The user can accept or reject the invitation by clicking `Accept` or `Decline`.

<Thumbnail src="/img/deployment/accept_reject_data_plane_invitation.png" alt="Accept or Reject Data Plane Invitation" />

### Removing a collaborator

You can remove any Data Plane collaborator by going to the
[Data Plane Management Dashboard](https://console.hasura.io/data-plane/). Select the Data Plane for which you have the
`owner` role, you'll be able to see all the collaborators of the Data Plane. Click `Remove` to remove the collaborator.

<Thumbnail src="/img/deployment/remove_data_plane_collaborator.png" alt="Remove Data Plane Collaborator" />

## Data Plane collaboration permissions

Currently there are only two roles available for Data Plane collaboration:

- `owner`: The owner of the Data Plane has full access to the Data Plane and can invite or remove collaborators.
- `member`: The member of the Data Plane can create projects on the Data Plane and manage them.

## Next steps

Now that you've provisioned a Data Plane, learned how to add collaborators.
[Learn how to create a project on a private Data Plane](/deployment/private-ddn/create-a-project-on-a-data-plane.mdx).
