docs/auth/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: Authentication and Authorization Overview
sidebar_position: 1
description:
  "Learn about Hasura's powerful authentication process. Understand its flexibility to use JWT, webhook, role emulation
  and your existing solutions. Control user access to data."
sidebar_label: Basics
keywords:
  - hasura authentication
  - jwt authentication
  - webhook authentication
  - role emulation
  - hasura authorization
  - user access control
  - secure hasura
  - data security
  - jwt mode
  - hasura integration
seoFrontMatterUpdated: true
---

import { OverviewPlainCard } from "../../src/components/OverviewPlainCard";
import { OverviewTopSectionIconNoVideo } from "@site/src/components/OverviewTopSectionIconNoVideo";
import Icon from "@site/static/icons/shield-tick.svg";

# Auth

## Introduction

Hasura is agnostic about how you authenticate users. You can integrate many popular auth services or use your own custom
solution.

After authentication, session variables are passed via either a valid JWT or webhook to the engine to be checked against
your access control rules or "permissions" to determine what data the user can access.

## Private vs Public

You can choose to make your Hasura DDN API public or private. [Read more](/auth/private-vs-public.mdx).

## AuthConfig options

Authentication in Hasura DDN can be set up in one of three modes. These modes and their configuration options are
specified in the `AuthConfig` object within your metadata.

### JWT mode

Your authentication service must issue JWTs which contain session variables that are passed to the Hasura Engine by the
client on each request. [Read more](/auth/jwt/index.mdx).

### Webhook mode

Hasura Engine will call a webhook on each request with the client headers forwarded. On successful authentication, the
webhook must return a valid `http` response with session variables in the body. [Read more](/auth/webhook/index.mdx).

### NoAuth mode

No authentication is required for a specific role to access the data. [Read more](/auth/noauth-mode.mdx).

Commit message:

docs for `AuthConfig` v4 (multiple auth mode support) (#1013)
Co-authored-by: Sean Park-Ross <94021366+seanparkross@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/auth/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: Authentication and Authorization Overview
sidebar_position: 1
description:
  "Learn about Hasura's powerful authentication process. Understand its flexibility to use JWT, webhook, role emulation
  and your existing solutions. Control user access to data."
sidebar_label: Basics
keywords:
  - hasura authentication
  - jwt authentication
  - webhook authentication
  - role emulation
  - hasura authorization
  - user access control
  - secure hasura
  - data security
  - jwt mode
  - hasura integration
seoFrontMatterUpdated: true
---

import { OverviewPlainCard } from "../../src/components/OverviewPlainCard";
import { OverviewTopSectionIconNoVideo } from "@site/src/components/OverviewTopSectionIconNoVideo";
import Icon from "@site/static/icons/shield-tick.svg";

# Auth

## Introduction

Hasura is agnostic about how you authenticate users. You can integrate many popular auth services or use your own custom
solution.

After authentication, session variables are passed via either a valid JWT or webhook to the engine to be checked against
your access control rules or "permissions" to determine what data the user can access.

## Private vs Public

You can choose to make your Hasura DDN API public or private. [Read more](/auth/private-vs-public.mdx).

## AuthConfig options

Authentication in Hasura DDN can be set up in one of three modes or multiple modes. These modes and their configuration
options are specified in the `AuthConfig` object within your metadata.

You can configure a single authentication mode or multiple authentication modes using the `alternativeModes` field in
AuthConfig v4. When using multiple authentication modes, you can specify which mode to use for a particular request by
including the `X-Hasura-Auth-Mode` header with the identifier of the desired authentication mode. [Read more about
multiple auth modes](/auth/multiple-auth-modes.mdx).

### JWT mode

Your authentication service must issue JWTs which contain session variables that are passed to the Hasura Engine by the
client on each request. [Read more](/auth/jwt/index.mdx).

### Webhook mode

Hasura Engine will call a webhook on each request with the client headers forwarded. On successful authentication, the
webhook must return a valid `http` response with session variables in the body. [Read more](/auth/webhook/index.mdx).

### NoAuth mode

No authentication is required for a specific role to access the data. [Read more](/auth/noauth-mode.mdx).
