docs/reference/cli/commands/ddn_auth.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: ddn auth
sidebar_position: 2
description: Manage Hasura DDN CLI Auth using the DDN CLI
keywords:
  - hasura
  - DDN
  - docs
  - CLI
  - ddn auth
---

# DDN CLI: ddn auth

Manage Hasura DDN CLI Auth.

## Synopsis

Manage Hasura DDN CLI Auth

## Available operations

- [ddn auth login](/reference/cli/commands/ddn_auth_login) - Login to DDN
- [ddn auth logout](/reference/cli/commands/ddn_auth_logout) - Logout from DDN
- [ddn auth print-pat](/reference/cli/commands/ddn_auth_print-pat) - Prints the PAT to STDOUT
- [ddn auth print-promptql-secret-key](/reference/cli/commands/ddn_auth_print-promptql-secret-key) - Prints the PromptQL
  secret key to STDOUT

## Options

```sass
-h, --help   help for auth
```

## Options inherited from parent operations

```sass
--log-level string   Log level. Can be DEBUG, WARN, INFO, ERROR, or FATAL. (default "INFO")
--no-prompt          Do not prompt for required but missing flags
--out string         Output format. Can be table, json or yaml. (default "table")
--timeout int        Request timeout in seconds [env: HASURA_DDN_TIMEOUT] (default 100)
```

## Parent operation

- [ddn](/reference/cli/commands/ddn) - DDN Command Line Interface

Commit message:

update PAT with access token across all files

docs/reference/cli/commands/ddn_auth.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: ddn auth
sidebar_position: 2
description: Manage Hasura DDN CLI Auth using the DDN CLI
keywords:
  - hasura
  - DDN
  - docs
  - CLI
  - ddn auth
---

# DDN CLI: ddn auth

Manage Hasura DDN CLI Auth.

## Synopsis

Manage Hasura DDN CLI Auth

## Available operations

- [ddn auth login](/reference/cli/commands/ddn_auth_login) - Login to DDN
- [ddn auth logout](/reference/cli/commands/ddn_auth_logout) - Logout from DDN
- [ddn auth print-access-token](/reference/cli/commands/ddn_auth_print-access-token) - Prints the access token to STDOUT
- [ddn auth print-pat](/reference/cli/commands/ddn_auth_print-pat) - Prints the PAT to STDOUT (deprecated)
- [ddn auth print-promptql-secret-key](/reference/cli/commands/ddn_auth_print-promptql-secret-key) - Prints the PromptQL
  secret key to STDOUT

## Options

```sass
-h, --help   help for auth
```

## Options inherited from parent operations

```sass
--log-level string   Log level. Can be DEBUG, WARN, INFO, ERROR, or FATAL. (default "INFO")
--no-prompt          Do not prompt for required but missing flags
--out string         Output format. Can be table, json or yaml. (default "table")
--timeout int        Request timeout in seconds [env: HASURA_DDN_TIMEOUT] (default 100)
```

## Parent operation

- [ddn](/reference/cli/commands/ddn) - DDN Command Line Interface
