docs/reference/cli/commands/ddn_auth_print-pat.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: ddn auth print-pat
sidebar_position: 5
description: Prints the PAT to STDOUT using the DDN CLI
keywords:
  - hasura
  - DDN
  - docs
  - CLI
  - ddn auth print-pat
---

# DDN CLI: ddn auth print-pat

Prints the PAT to STDOUT.

## Synopsis

Prints the PAT to STDOUT

```bash
ddn auth print-pat [flags]
```

**Alias:** pp

## Examples

```bash
# Print the PAT as a string to STDOUT
 ddn auth print-pat

# Print PAT as a JSON to STDOUT
 ddn auth print-pat --out json
```

## Options

```sass
-h, --help   help for print-pat
```

## Options inherited from parent operations

```sass
--log-level string   Log level. Can be DEBUG, WARN, INFO, ERROR, or FATAL. (default "INFO")
--no-prompt          Do not prompt for required but missing flags
--out string         Output format. Can be table, json or yaml. (default "table")
--timeout int        Request timeout in seconds [env: HASURA_DDN_TIMEOUT] (default 100)
```

## Parent operation

- [ddn auth](/reference/cli/commands/ddn_auth) - Manage Hasura DDN CLI Auth

Commit message:

update PAT with access token across all files

docs/reference/cli/commands/ddn_auth_print-pat.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: ddn auth print-pat (deprecated)
sidebar_position: 5
description: Prints the PAT to STDOUT using the DDN CLI
keywords:
  - hasura
  - DDN
  - docs
  - CLI
  - ddn auth print-pat
---

# DDN CLI: ddn auth print-pat (deprecated)

Prints the PAT to STDOUT. Deprecated in favor of [ddn auth print-access-token](/reference/cli/commands/ddn_auth_print-access-token).

## Synopsis

Prints the PAT to STDOUT

```bash
ddn auth print-pat [flags]
```

**Alias:** pp

## Examples

```bash
# Print the PAT as a string to STDOUT
 ddn auth print-pat

# Print PAT as a JSON to STDOUT
 ddn auth print-pat --out json
```

## Options

```sass
-h, --help   help for print-pat
```

## Options inherited from parent operations

```sass
--log-level string   Log level. Can be DEBUG, WARN, INFO, ERROR, or FATAL. (default "INFO")
--no-prompt          Do not prompt for required but missing flags
--out string         Output format. Can be table, json or yaml. (default "table")
--timeout int        Request timeout in seconds [env: HASURA_DDN_TIMEOUT] (default 100)
```

## Parent operation

- [ddn auth](/reference/cli/commands/ddn_auth) - Manage Hasura DDN CLI Auth
