---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: Core Concepts
description: Core concepts of Hasura DDN
keywords:
  - data supergraph
  - subgraph
  - supergraph
  - core concepts
---

# Core Concepts

The sprawl of microservices and APIs has led to a new set of challenges for developers and architects.

In the modern era of building applications, the data layer is becoming increasingly complex; it's no longer just a
database, but a collection of databases, services, and APIs. Hasura DDN introduces the concept of a **data supergraph**
to help you manage this complexity.

## The state of the data layer

Imagine the following sets of teams within a hypothetical company:

- **Product Management Team**: Responsible for the relational database storing product information. This team focuses on
  cataloging products, managing inventory, and ensuring product details are accurate and up-to-date by use of a
  **relational PostgreSQL database**.

- **User Experience Team**: Manages a **document database** and related APIs for storing user information. Their focus
  is on maintaining user profiles, preferences, and ensuring privacy and security of user data.

- **Search Optimization Team**: Handles the **intergration of a search service** for products and partner stores. They
  work on optimizing search algorithms, ensuring relevant search results, and improving the overall search experience
  for users.

- **Finance and Transactions Team**: Oversees the **payment service and underlying relational database** for processing
  payments. This includes managing transaction security, payment gateway integrations, and ensuring smooth financial
  transactions.

- **Logistics and Shipping Team**: Responsible for the **shipping service, fulfilling orders, and the underlying
  relational database that supports this process**. Their primary focus is on logistics, order tracking, and ensuring
  timely delivery of products.

- **Data Science and Recommendations Team**: Manages the **vector database** for storing user recommendations. They work
  on personalization algorithms, user behavior analysis, and providing tailored product recommendations to enhance user
  experience.

The diversity of teams within this hypothetical company, each with their unique focus and specialized databases,
epitomizes the common challenge in modern data management and API development. These teams all operate with distinct
APIs, schemas, and methodologies. This fragmentation not only complicates the process of developing applications but
also necessitates the involvement of skilled data architects and engineers to efficiently integrate and maintain these
varied data sources.

## Subgraphs

In our e-commerce application example, each service above represents what we term a
**[subgraph](/ci-cd/subgraphs.mdx)**.

A subgraph is much more than just a single data source; it is a comprehensive collection encompassing tables, types,
APIs, and schemas that define how data is structured and accessed. Hasura can seamlessly integrate this with other
subgraphs. This integration forms a cohesive and larger data supergraph.

Each subgraph in our example is a modular component of the data supergraph. These components securely work together to
overcome the traditional barriers posed by isolated data sources, facilitating a more fluid and interconnected data
layer. This integrated approach simplifies application development across diverse data systems, enabling faster
iteration and more efficient maintenance by engineering teams.

### How do I build a subgraph?

Subgraphs are composed of related data sources — be that as traditional databases, or as custom business logic — and are
connected to your data layer using **[data connectors](/connectors/overview.mdx)**. Hasura DDN utilizes a number of data
connectors that work with popular databases, services, and APIs out-of-the-box; you can also build your own. This saves
you the time and effort of building and maintaining your own APIs to manage data sources and existing microservices.

With each subgraph you add to your Hasura project, you're adding a piece to your connected and secure data layer. You
can add as many subgraphs as you need to represent your data layer. **These subgraphs can even include your own custom
business logic as TypeScript functions that return or mutate data directly via your GraphQL API** which can then be
consumed as part of a single, secure GraphQL API: your data supergraph.

## Supergraph

A data supergraph is the framework that brings together all of your subgraphs into one secure API. This orchestration
allows for the creation of applications that span multiple data sources, services, third-party APIs and business logic
seamlessly bridging their complexities into a single layer.

For API authors, this means the ability to build out an API — composed of different sources — in a simple, declarative
way. You can utilize unique access-control rules, authentication mechanisms, and custom business logic within your
subgraphs to create a secure and robust API.

For those responsible for maintaining the data layer, this means you now have the ability to build and maintain
subgraphs with finely-tuned CI/CD pipelines and workflows. You can ensure that production will never break and that
end-users will always be able to access the data they need.

### How do I build a supergraph?

This happens automatically.

As you add subgraphs to your Hasura project, Hasura DDN automatically builds a supergraph of all your data sources. You
have the freedom and flexibility to define relationships — including fine-grained access control — across this
supergraph, connecting data sources together and making them available in ways that make sense for your application.

## Next steps

Check out our [getting started guide](/getting-started/local-dev.mdx) to learn how to build your first data supergraph.
