docs/private-ddn/create-a-project-on-a-data-plane.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 5
sidebar_label: Create a project
description: "Learn how to create a project on a private Data Plane."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - private ddn
  - dedicated vpc
  - enterprise ddn
seoFrontMatterUpdated: false
---

import Thumbnail from "@site/src/components/Thumbnail";
import Prereqs from "@site/docs/_prereqs.mdx";

# Create a Project on a Data Plane

## Introduction

This guide will walk you through the steps for creating a project on a Data Plane in
[Private Hasura DDN](/private-ddn/overview.mdx). Before proceeding, you'll first need to be
[invited](/private-ddn/data-plane-collaboration.mdx) to a Data Plane.

<Prereqs />

## Step 1. Authenticate your CLI

```sh title="Being by authenticating your CLI seession:"
ddn auth login
```

A browser window will open and prompt you for your login credentials. After successfully logging in, you'll be able to
return to the CLI.

The DDN CLI will scaffold out all the necessary files and directories for your project.

## Step 2. Scaffold out a new local project

```sh title="Next, create a new local project:"
ddn supergraph init my-project && cd my-project
```

Once you move into this directory, you'll see your project scaffolded out for you. You can view the structure by either
running ls in your terminal, or by opening the directory in your preferred editor.

## Step 3. Add a data source

The command below will launch a wizard via the DDN CLI which will assist you in adding a data connector. You can learn
more about adding sources via data connectors [here](/data-sources/connect-to-a-source.mdx).

```sh title="Add a data source using the CLI:"
ddn connector init <connector_name> -i
```

This will provision the necessary files — using your configuration — for connecting a data source to your supergraph
API.

:::info Organize your data into subgraphs

You can also organize your API into **subgraphs**. Subgraphs are generally organized around team functions or business
outcomes and allow for independent ownership and governance of data sources. Learn more
[here](/project-configuration/subgraphs/index.mdx).

:::

## Step 4. Generate your metadata

```sh title="First, introspect your data source:"
ddn connector introspect <connector_name>
```

```sh title="Then, generate the metadata:"
ddn model add <connector_name> '*'
ddn command add <connector_name> '*'
ddn relationship add <connector_name> '*'
```

You'll see metadata files generated for each entity in your data source. You can learn more
[here](/data-modeling/overview.mdx).

## Step 5. Create a new local build

```sh title="You can now create a local build:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

```sh title="Then run your local services, including the Hasura DDN Engine and your connector(s):"
ddn run docker-start
```

```sh title="Finally, open the local development console usign the CLI:"
ddn console --local
```

The development console will open wherein you can run your first query.

## Step 6. Create a project on your Data Plane

You'll create a new project using the DDN CLI and by passing two flags: the `data-plane-id` and the `plan`.

:::info Get Data Plane ID

You can find all the Data Planes you have access to on this page: https://console.hasura.io/data-plane

:::

:::info Available Plans

- ddn_free
- ddn_base
- ddn_advanced

Read more about plans [here](/reference/pricing.mdx)

:::

```sh title="Create a new project using your Data Plane ID and plan choice:"
ddn project init --data-plane-id <data-plane-id> --plan <plan-name>
```

The CLI will return information about your newly created project.

## Step 7. Build and deploy your supergraph

```sh title="build and deploy you supergraph:"
ddn supergraph build create
```

When this process is complete, the CLI will return a link to the hosted API where you can run the same query as before.

## Next steps

With your first project created, learn more about how Hasura handles [data modeling](/data-modeling/overview.mdx) before
diving into advanced features.

Commit message:

DDN Workspace additional details (#924)
Co-authored-by: Rob Dominguez <rob.dominguez@hasura.io>

docs/private-ddn/create-a-project-on-a-data-plane.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 5
sidebar_label: Create a project
description: "Learn how to create a project on a private Data Plane."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - private ddn
  - dedicated vpc
  - enterprise ddn
seoFrontMatterUpdated: false
---

import Thumbnail from "@site/src/components/Thumbnail";
import Prereqs from "@site/docs/_prereqs.mdx";

# Create a Project on a Data Plane

## Introduction

:::tip Important

This guide will walk you through the steps for creating a project on a Data Plane in
[Private Hasura DDN](/private-ddn/overview.mdx). Before proceeding, you'll first need
to be [invited](/private-ddn/data-plane-collaboration.mdx) to a Data Plane.

If you are unable to meet the prerequisites listed below or your data source is inaccessible
from the location where you run DDN CLI commands, consider using a [DDN Workspace](/private-ddn/ddn-workspace.mdx) instead.

:::

<Prereqs />

## Step 1. Authenticate your CLI

```sh title="Being by authenticating your CLI seession:"
ddn auth login
```

A browser window will open and prompt you for your login credentials. After successfully logging in, you'll be able to
return to the CLI.

The DDN CLI will scaffold out all the necessary files and directories for your project.

## Step 2. Scaffold out a new local project

```sh title="Next, create a new local project:"
ddn supergraph init my-project && cd my-project
```

Once you move into this directory, you'll see your project scaffolded out for you. You can view the structure by either
running ls in your terminal, or by opening the directory in your preferred editor.

## Step 3. Add a data source

The command below will launch a wizard via the DDN CLI which will assist you in adding a data connector. You can learn
more about adding sources via data connectors [here](/data-sources/connect-to-a-source.mdx).

```sh title="Add a data source using the CLI:"
ddn connector init <connector_name> -i
```

This will provision the necessary files — using your configuration — for connecting a data source to your supergraph
API.

:::info Organize your data into subgraphs

You can also organize your API into **subgraphs**. Subgraphs are generally organized around team functions or business
outcomes and allow for independent ownership and governance of data sources. Learn more
[here](/project-configuration/subgraphs/index.mdx).

:::

## Step 4. Generate your metadata

```sh title="First, introspect your data source:"
ddn connector introspect <connector_name>
```

```sh title="Then, generate the metadata:"
ddn model add <connector_name> '*'
ddn command add <connector_name> '*'
ddn relationship add <connector_name> '*'
```

You'll see metadata files generated for each entity in your data source. You can learn more
[here](/data-modeling/overview.mdx).

## Step 5. Create a new local build

```sh title="You can now create a local build:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

```sh title="Then run your local services, including the Hasura DDN Engine and your connector(s):"
ddn run docker-start
```

```sh title="Finally, open the local development console usign the CLI:"
ddn console --local
```

The development console will open wherein you can run your first query.

## Step 6. Create a project on your Data Plane

You'll create a new project using the DDN CLI and by passing two flags: the `data-plane-id` and the `plan`.

:::info Get Data Plane ID

You can find all the Data Planes you have access to on this page: https://console.hasura.io/data-plane

:::

:::info Available Plans

- ddn_free
- ddn_base
- ddn_advanced

Read more about plans [here](/reference/pricing.mdx)

:::

```sh title="Create a new project using your Data Plane ID and plan choice:"
ddn project init --data-plane-id <data-plane-id> --plan <plan-name>
```

The CLI will return information about your newly created project.

## Step 7. Build and deploy your supergraph

```sh title="build and deploy you supergraph:"
ddn supergraph build create
```

When this process is complete, the CLI will return a link to the hosted API where you can run the same query as before.

## Next steps

With your first project created, learn more about how Hasura handles [data modeling](/data-modeling/overview.mdx) before
diving into advanced features.
