docs/private-ddn/ddn-workspace.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 6
sidebar_label: DDN workspace
description: "Learn how to develop with DDN workspace"
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - private ddn
  - dedicated vpc
  - enterprise ddn
  - create private ddn
  - ddn workspace
seoFrontMatterUpdated: false
---

import Thumbnail from "@site/src/components/Thumbnail";

# Developing with DDN workspace

## Introduction

DDN Workspace provides a browser-based development environment for working with Private DDN, eliminating the need to
install DDN CLI and its dependencies locally. It features a familiar VS Code-like UI, runs directly on your data plane,
and includes all necessary dependencies required to work with DDN pre-installed.

This guide will walk you through the steps for using DDN workspace to develop your API on a Data Plane in
[Private Hasura DDN](/private-ddn/overview.mdx). Before proceeding, you'll first need to be
[invited](/private-ddn/data-plane-collaboration.mdx) to a Data Plane.

:::info Prerequisite

To provision a new workspace in Private DDN, please reach out to us [here](https://hasura.io/contact-us).

:::

We recommend a dedicated workspace for each developer working on Private DDN API development. Once the workspace has
been provisioned, it can be launched from the [Private DDN page](https://console.hasura.io/data-plane).

## Advantages

- Get started with just your browser. No need to install DDN CLI and its dependencies (e.g. Docker Engine) on your local
  machine.
- Network connectivity - Since the workspace runs on your data plane, it has direct access to all data sources and
  services within the data plane network. There is no need to set up complex VPN/network policies to access your DBs
  from your local machine.
- Collaboration - Multiple developers can work on the same project simultaneously within the same workspace, if needed.

## Step 1. Launch a workspace

- To launch a workspace, click on the `Launch Workspace` button on the Private DDN. You can find a list of all available
  Private DDN instances here. This will open a new tab in your browser with the workspace UI.

- Click on the `Copy Password` button to copy the password to your clipboard. Use this password to login to the
  workspace.

<Thumbnail src="/img/data-plane/launch-workspace.png" alt="Launch DDN workspace" width="1000px" />

## Step 2. Create a `<service-account-token>`

:::info Prerequisite

In order to perform a `ddn auth login --access-token <service-account-token>`, you need to have a project created in your data plane under which a `<service-account-token>` has been generated.
If you have already done this, continue to the next step.  Otherwise, proceed with the steps below and ensure that you are executing this on your local machine since a browser login is required
during this step.

:::

:::info Get Data Plane ID

You can find all the Data Planes you have access to on this page: https://console.hasura.io/data-plane

:::

:::info Available Plans

- ddn_base
- ddn_advanced

Read more about plans [here](/reference/pricing.mdx)

:::

```sh title="Login & create project:"
# Perform a ddn auth login using your personal Hasura Cloud account
ddn auth login

# Create a project
ddn project create --data-plane-id <data-plane-id> --plan <plan-name>
```

Next, follow [these](/project-configuration/project-management/service-accounts/#how-to-create-service-account) steps to generate a `<service-account-token>`.

## Step 3. Authenticate the DDN CLI

Once you're logged into the DDN Workspace, you will be greeted with the familiar VS Code UI. You can perform all typical development tasks, such as
installing extensions, customizing key bindings, and applying themes—all within your browser.

Bring up the terminal using the shortcut `Ctrl` + `` ` ``.

Run the command below to authenticate the CLI with a service account token. If you don't have a token, follow
[these](/project-configuration/project-management/service-accounts/#how-to-create-service-account) steps to generate
one.

```bash
ddn auth login --access-token <service-account-token>
```

## Step 4. Scaffold out a new local project

```sh title="Next, create a new local project:"
ddn supergraph init my-project && cd my-project
```

After navigating into the directory, you will see the project structure scaffolded for you. You can view the project
structure by running `ls` in the terminal or by exploring it in the VS Code interface.

## Step 5. Add a data source

:::tip

If you have established private connectivity to your data source, you will need to ensure that you are using a
hostname/IP for your database which is specific to your private connectivity connection.
This hostname/IP will be communicated to you by the Hasura team during the coordination of the private connectivity setup.

:::

The command below launches a wizard in the DDN CLI to guide you through adding a data connector. You can learn more
about adding sources via data connectors [here](/data-sources/connect-to-a-source.mdx).

```sh title="Add a data source using the CLI:"
ddn connector init <connector_name> -i
```

This will provision the necessary files using your configuration for connecting a data source to your supergraph API.

:::info Organize your data into subgraphs

You can also organize your API into **subgraphs**. Subgraphs are generally organized around team functions or business
outcomes and allow for independent ownership and governance of data sources. Learn more
[here](/project-configuration/subgraphs/index.mdx).

:::

## Step 6. Generate your metadata

```sh title="First, introspect your data source:"
ddn connector introspect <connector_name>
```

```sh title="Then, generate the metadata:"
ddn model add <connector_name> '*'
ddn command add <connector_name> '*'
ddn relationship add <connector_name> '*'
```

Metadata files will be generated for each entity in your data source. You can learn more
[here](/data-modeling/overview.mdx).

:::info Note

`ddn supergraph build local`, `ddn run docker-start` and `ddn console --local` are not supported in DDN workspace. Once
the metadata is generated, create a cloud project and deploy your supergraph to your Private DDN to query the API.

:::

## Step 7. Initiate against a project on your Data Plane

:::info

In this step, use the `<project-name>` from Step 2.
:::

```sh title="Initiate against an existing project on your data plane:"
ddn project init --with-project <project-name>
```

## Step 8. Build and deploy your supergraph

```sh title="Build and deploy your supergraph:"
ddn supergraph build create
```

When this process is complete, the CLI will return a link to the hosted API where you can query your data.

## Step 9. Exporting your metadata

To export metadata, right-click the Explorer pane and select `Download`. This will download the entire workspace
directory to your local machine. Since Git is pre-installed in the workspace, you can also configure it and push changes
directly to a remote repository.

<Thumbnail src="/img/data-plane/export-metadata.png" alt="Export metadata" width="1000px" />

## Logout

To log out of the workspace, click the Menu button in the top-left corner and select `Sign out of code-server`. This
will close the workspace and you will be redirected to the workspace login page. The state of your local project will be
preserved and you can login again to continue working on it.

<Thumbnail src="/img/data-plane/workspace-logout.png" alt="Logout from workspace" width="1000px" />

Commit message:

Add alternate approach suggestion of using PAT

docs/private-ddn/ddn-workspace.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 6
sidebar_label: DDN workspace
description: "Learn how to develop with DDN workspace"
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - private ddn
  - dedicated vpc
  - enterprise ddn
  - create private ddn
  - ddn workspace
seoFrontMatterUpdated: false
---

import Thumbnail from "@site/src/components/Thumbnail";

# Developing with DDN workspace

## Introduction

DDN Workspace provides a browser-based development environment for working with Private DDN, eliminating the need to
install DDN CLI and its dependencies locally. It features a familiar VS Code-like UI, runs directly on your data plane,
and includes all necessary dependencies required to work with DDN pre-installed.

This guide will walk you through the steps for using DDN workspace to develop your API on a Data Plane in
[Private Hasura DDN](/private-ddn/overview.mdx). Before proceeding, you'll first need to be
[invited](/private-ddn/data-plane-collaboration.mdx) to a Data Plane.

:::info Prerequisite

To provision a new workspace in Private DDN, please reach out to us [here](https://hasura.io/contact-us).

:::

We recommend a dedicated workspace for each developer working on Private DDN API development. Once the workspace has
been provisioned, it can be launched from the [Private DDN page](https://console.hasura.io/data-plane).

## Advantages

- Get started with just your browser. No need to install DDN CLI and its dependencies (e.g. Docker Engine) on your local
  machine.
- Network connectivity - Since the workspace runs on your data plane, it has direct access to all data sources and
  services within the data plane network. There is no need to set up complex VPN/network policies to access your DBs
  from your local machine.
- Collaboration - Multiple developers can work on the same project simultaneously within the same workspace, if needed.

## Step 1. Launch a workspace

- To launch a workspace, click on the `Launch Workspace` button on the Private DDN. You can find a list of all available
  Private DDN instances here. This will open a new tab in your browser with the workspace UI.

- Click on the `Copy Password` button to copy the password to your clipboard. Use this password to login to the
  workspace.

<Thumbnail src="/img/data-plane/launch-workspace.png" alt="Launch DDN workspace" width="1000px" />

## Step 2. Create a `<service-account-token>`

:::info Prerequisite

In order to perform a `ddn auth login --access-token <service-account-token>`, you need to have a project created in your data plane under which a `<service-account-token>` has been generated.
If you have already done this, continue to the next step.  Otherwise, proceed with the steps below and ensure that you are executing this on your local machine since a browser login is required
during this step.

**Alternate Approach:**

If you are unable to generate a `<service-account-token>`, you can instead create a Personal Access Token (PAT) by heading on over to [Hasura dashboard](https://cloud.hasura.io/account-settings/access-tokens)
and creating a new access token there.

:::

:::info Get Data Plane ID

You can find all the Data Planes you have access to on this page: https://console.hasura.io/data-plane

:::

:::info Available Plans

- ddn_base
- ddn_advanced

Read more about plans [here](/reference/pricing.mdx)

:::

```sh title="Login & create project:"
# Perform a ddn auth login using your personal Hasura Cloud account
ddn auth login

# Create a project
ddn project create --data-plane-id <data-plane-id> --plan <plan-name>
```

Next, follow [these](/project-configuration/project-management/service-accounts/#how-to-create-service-account) steps to generate a `<service-account-token>`.

## Step 3. Authenticate the DDN CLI

Once you're logged into the DDN Workspace, you will be greeted with the familiar VS Code UI. You can perform all typical development tasks, such as
installing extensions, customizing key bindings, and applying themes—all within your browser.

Bring up the terminal using the shortcut `Ctrl` + `` ` ``.

Run the command below to authenticate the CLI with a service account token. If you don't have a token, follow
[these](/project-configuration/project-management/service-accounts/#how-to-create-service-account) steps to generate
one.

```bash
ddn auth login --access-token <service-account-token>
```

Alternatively, if you have opted to use a Personal Access Token (PAT), run the following command instead:

```bash
ddn auth login --pat <personal-account-token>
```

## Step 4. Scaffold out a new local project

```sh title="Next, create a new local project:"
ddn supergraph init my-project && cd my-project
```

After navigating into the directory, you will see the project structure scaffolded for you. You can view the project
structure by running `ls` in the terminal or by exploring it in the VS Code interface.

## Step 5. Add a data source

:::tip

If you have established private connectivity to your data source, you will need to ensure that you are using a
hostname/IP for your database which is specific to your private connectivity connection.
This hostname/IP will be communicated to you by the Hasura team during the coordination of the private connectivity setup.

:::

The command below launches a wizard in the DDN CLI to guide you through adding a data connector. You can learn more
about adding sources via data connectors [here](/data-sources/connect-to-a-source.mdx).

```sh title="Add a data source using the CLI:"
ddn connector init <connector_name> -i
```

This will provision the necessary files using your configuration for connecting a data source to your supergraph API.

:::info Organize your data into subgraphs

You can also organize your API into **subgraphs**. Subgraphs are generally organized around team functions or business
outcomes and allow for independent ownership and governance of data sources. Learn more
[here](/project-configuration/subgraphs/index.mdx).

:::

## Step 6. Generate your metadata

```sh title="First, introspect your data source:"
ddn connector introspect <connector_name>
```

```sh title="Then, generate the metadata:"
ddn model add <connector_name> '*'
ddn command add <connector_name> '*'
ddn relationship add <connector_name> '*'
```

Metadata files will be generated for each entity in your data source. You can learn more
[here](/data-modeling/overview.mdx).

:::info Note

`ddn supergraph build local`, `ddn run docker-start` and `ddn console --local` are not supported in DDN workspace. Once
the metadata is generated, create a cloud project and deploy your supergraph to your Private DDN to query the API.

:::

## Step 7. Initiate against a project on your Data Plane

:::info

In this step, use the `<project-name>` from Step 2.
:::

```sh title="Initiate against an existing project on your data plane:"
ddn project init --with-project <project-name>
```

## Step 8. Build and deploy your supergraph

```sh title="Build and deploy your supergraph:"
ddn supergraph build create
```

When this process is complete, the CLI will return a link to the hosted API where you can query your data.

## Step 9. Exporting your metadata

To export metadata, right-click the Explorer pane and select `Download`. This will download the entire workspace
directory to your local machine. Since Git is pre-installed in the workspace, you can also configure it and push changes
directly to a remote repository.

<Thumbnail src="/img/data-plane/export-metadata.png" alt="Export metadata" width="1000px" />

## Logout

To log out of the workspace, click the Menu button in the top-left corner and select `Sign out of code-server`. This
will close the workspace and you will be redirected to the workspace login page. The state of your local project will be
preserved and you can login again to continue working on it.

<Thumbnail src="/img/data-plane/workspace-logout.png" alt="Logout from workspace" width="1000px" />
