docs/observability/overview.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Overview
description:
  "Explore Hasura's observability tools that optimize the monitoring and debugging of your GraphQL API. Learn about
  performance check, error debugging, and gaining insights into the use of your GraphQL API for increased productivity
  and efficiency."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - graphql api
  - api observability
  - api monitoring
  - api debugging
  - api performance
  - api metrics
  - graphql metrics
  - api tracing
  - hasura tools
hide_table_of_contents: true
seoFrontMatterUpdated: true
---

import { OverviewTopSectionIconNoVideo } from "@site/src/components/OverviewTopSectionIconNoVideo";
import { OverviewPlainCard } from "@site/src/components/OverviewPlainCard";
import Icon from "@site/static/icons/eye.svg";

# Observability

## Introduction

Out of the box, Hasura DDN comes with a powerful set of tools that help you monitor and debug your GraphQL API. With
observability, you can check on the performance of your GraphQL API, debug errors, and get insights into your GraphQL
API usage.

## Find out more

- [Query plan](/observability/explain/index.mdx)
- [Metrics](/observability/metrics.mdx)
- [Traces](/observability/traces.mdx)
- [Analytics](/observability/model-analytics/index.mdx)

Commit message:

Docs: Create new directory structure
Creates a new directory structure largely based on the planning document. Notably, the majority of the existin content was brought into the `built-in` subdirectory with a new how-to page stubbed out
for exporting metrics (which I believe can only be done via self-hosting or Private DDN).

docs/observability/overview.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Basics
description:
  "Explore Hasura's observability tools that optimize the monitoring and debugging of your GraphQL API. Learn about
  performance check, error debugging, and gaining insights into the use of your GraphQL API for increased productivity
  and efficiency."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - graphql api
  - api observability
  - api monitoring
  - api debugging
  - api performance
  - api metrics
  - graphql metrics
  - api tracing
  - hasura tools
seoFrontMatterUpdated: true
---

# Basics

## Introduction

Out of the box, Hasura DDN comes with a powerful set of tools that help you monitor and debug your GraphQL API. With our
built-in observability tools, you can check on the performance of your GraphQL API, debug errors, and get insights into
your GraphQL API usage.

## Built-in features

## Exporting your metrics

## Find out more

- [Traces](/observability/built-in/traces.mdx)
- [Metrics](/observability/built-in/metrics.mdx)
- [Analytics](/observability/built-in/model-analytics/index.mdx)
- [Query plan](/observability/built-in/explain/index.mdx)
- [Export your metrics](/observability/export.mdx)
