docs/help/faq.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: FAQ
description:
  "Explore the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for Hasura DDN and get essential insights about its architecture, CI/CD
  features, benefits for developers, data connectivity, and more. Understand how Hasura DDN is transforming API
  management and modern application development."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn faq
  - hasura cli
  - microservices
  - api creation
  - app development
  - hasura ddn architecture
  - cloud service
  - data connectivity
  - hasura runtime engine
seoFrontMatterUpdated: true
---

# Hasura FAQ

## What is the general architecture of Hasura DDN?

Hasura DDN is built on the major advancements made in Hasura Version 3:

**Hasura Runtime Engine:** The Hasura Engine is responsible for processing and serving APIs based on provided metadata.
In DDN, the engine is has a clear separation of build time and runtime concerns which is analogous to compiled
programming languages. Metadata can now be authored, edited and built declaratively without causing any downtime. The
new engine can also serve production-grade APIs from the edge with extremely high performance since it accesses metadata
on a per-request basis and benefits from vastly improved startup times. Essentially the cold start problem has been
removed in DDN leading to zero-downtime rollouts.

**Native Data Connector (NDC) Specification:** The NDC specification describes how the API request will be executed and
how the engine will interact with the underlying data source and is a new data connectivity specification from Hasura.
In DDN, there is now no concept of "native databases" and access to all data sources and functionality including
PostgreSQL will be based on the native data connector specification, implemented via Connectors. This helps in providing
rich feature sets for _all_ data sources as compared to just a few select ones. Moreover, there is now a strong focus on
enabling the community to build data connector agents themselves. The specification and provided
[Rust](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-hub#rust-sdk) and [Typescript](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-sdk-typescript) SDKs
support building high-quality integrations for almost any conceivable data source (both databases and APIs), offering
features like native queries, push-down capabilities, and connection pooling. [Learn more](/data-sources/overview.mdx).

**Supergraph:** A supergraph is an architecture and operating model to build and scale multiple data domains (or
subgraphs) as a single graph of entities and operations.

**Subgraphs:** Subgraphs introduce a module system for metadata. They allow multi-team organizations working on a Hasura
project to segment access to different metadata objects. A project's metadata is the amalgamation of metadata objects
from all its subgraphs, and each subgraph can be accessed and updated independently. It also helps in avoiding conflicts
when there are, for example, tables with the same names in different data sources. [Learn
more](/project/configuration/overview.mdx **Hasura Cloud:** The cloud layer in Hasura DDN, Hasura Cloud, introduces the
Data Delivery Network (DDN) for global API performance and availability. This layer also offers tools for managing
projects, builds, subgraph and essentially represents the control plane for Hasura DDN.

**DDN CLI:** The new DDN CLI (Command-Line Interface), serves as a powerful tool for developers to interact with the
Hasura platform. It allows users to initialize projects, manage metadata, track objects, create builds, and deploy data
connectors that service an API in the cloud, easily. [Learn More](/reference/cli/index.mdx)

**DDN Console:** The DDN Console has been revamped to enable rapid onboarding, testing and troubleshooting. The console
now provides rich visualizations, deep dive metrics into models, enhanced traces, the new GraphiQL API explorer, new
operational health dashboard and a refurbished data manager that scales seamlessly with heavy loads.
[Learn More](https://console.hasura.io/)

**Builds:** Each metadata change in Hasura now results in an atomic build which is represented by an immutable artifact
that is loaded onto Hasura DDN instantly. Which means there is inherent version control and the ability to push metadata
changes instantly and without errors. [Learn more](/project/configuration/overview.mdx

## What will be the benefit for me, the developer? (Why would I want to use or switch to DDN?)

- Significant improvements to metadata authoring and management.
  - And end to the cold-start problem and instant changes to metadata. Deploy multiple times in an hour. Deploy with
    lightning speed and sub-second CI/CD.
  - No dependency on upstream services which means zero-downtime deployments.
  - Code driven workflows with advanced code generation tooling.
  - A single spec to define your whole API across diverse data sources and business logic.
  - Declarative metadata authoring with full control on API schema generation.
  - No metadata database - one less thing to manage in production.
- Connect to any data or run any business logic with Native Data Connectors (NDCs).
- Compose all your data sources, APIs and information into a single, powerful, inter-related supergraph.
- Work better with your team with improved version control and collaboration features.
- Unparalleled performance at any scale with optimized query execution and caching mechanisms.
- Access a global edge network for low-latency, high-performance APIs with the Data Delivery Network (DDN).
- Bring the programming language of your choice such as Typescript to compose business logic
- Perform advanced mutations and workflows within the request response lifecycle.

## What are the benefits of Subgraphs?

- **Modular Development:** Subgraphs promote modular development by allowing teams to independently develop, test, and
  deploy their code without impacting the functionality of other subgraphs. This can also be done in independent
  repositories for each subgraph, in a "multi-repo" setup. This modular approach simplifies code management and reduces
  the risk of breaking changes. Subgraphs can be tested in context of the full supergraph to ensure that they work as
  expected when combined.
- **Independent Deployment:** Subgraphs can also be deployed individually, ensuring that updates to one subgraph do not
  require downtime for the entire supergraph. This flexibility allows for continuous integration and delivery (CI/CD)
  practices that accelerate feature releases.
- **Improved Collaboration:** Subgraphs allow different teams to focus on their specialized data domains, fostering
  collaboration by enabling them to share their APIs and data through a unified interface. This collaborative but
  isolated workflow environment accelerates development times and reduces friction between teams.
- **Strong Governance:** Hasura DDN provides robust governance features, such as project collaboration roles and
  permissions that ensure data integrity and security across subgraphs. These features enable teams to enforce data
  policies and restrictions, protecting sensitive information and maintaining compliance with regulatory requirements.
- **Efficient Data Management:** Federation simplifies data management by enabling teams to work with smaller, more
  manageable data domains. Teams can focus on their specific data requirements without being overwhelmed by the entire
  data schema.

## What CI/CD features does Hasura DDN offer?

**Instant CI/CD:** Hasura brings instant CI/CD capabilities, enabling developers to test and validate changes rapidly.

**CLI-Controlled Development:** The Hasura Command-Line Interface (CLI) plays a central role in controlling and managing
metadata builds and connector deployments. It allows developers to manage projects, create builds and promote them to
production. This CLI-centric approach simplifies the deployment process and enables time-saving CI/CD pipelines.
[Learn more](/reference/cli/index.mdx)

**Builds and Project Shares:** With Hasura, metadata states are represented as builds. Once a build is thoroughly tested
and validated, it can be applied to a project as the live API and made available to API consumers globally. This
separation of build and production steps ensure a smoother transition from development to production.

**Extremely Fast Builds:** Hasura also introduces cloud innovations that allow metadata builds to be created instantly,
regardless of the number of models. This means that updating even a large number of models is a swift and seamless
process and developers can rapidly test multiple builds within a day.

**Zero Downtime Rollouts:** With Hasura, going to production is facilitated without restarts and with zero downtime.
This ensures that your API remains available to users while updates are being applied.

**Metadata Version Control:** Hasura includes in-product metadata version control. Each build is associated with a
unique build ID, making it easier to track and manage different versions of your metadata. This enhances transparency
and auditability during the development process.

## What can be automated?

Since metadata authoring is mostly code driven using the
[Hasura VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=HasuraHQ.hasura) and the CLI, many
metadata related changes can be automated using a version management and CI/CD tool of your choice.

## How does Hasura DDN connect to data sources?

Native Data Connectors (NDC) are a framework introduced in Hasura DDN that enables developers to use pre-built data
connector agents or build their own.

You can think of Data Connectors as a bridge or driver between Hasura DDN and external data sources.

Data Connectors facilitate the integration between Hasura and external data sources, allowing Hasura to seamlessly
interact with a wide range of databases, services, and APIs. NDCs can be built for almost any conceivable source of data
and are the only way to connect to data sources in Hasura DDN.

Native Data Connectors can either be self-hosted or hosted by Hasura. [Learn more](/data-sources/overview.mdx)

## I just have a database, why do I need to know about Data Connectors?

Essentially, you don’t. You can rely on our Hasura VS Code Extension and Hasura CLI to do much of the code generation
and validation, but with knowledge of Data Connectors you will better understand your Supergraph architecture and you
can build custom integrations to any data source or custom function or API.

If you're interested in this you can check out our Rust or
[Typescript SDKs](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-sdk-typescript), and also our
[Node.js Lambda Typescript Connector](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-nodejs-lambda).

## Is Hasura DDN open source?

The [Hasura DDN engine](https://github.com/hasura/graphql-engine/tree/master/v3) and all
[Hasura data connectors](https://hasura.io/connectors) are open-source and can be run on your own infrastructure. With
the optimizations and features that Hasura DDN offers at the price point, our cloud service is the best way to use
Hasura and self-hosting should be an option when specific requirements are needed and enterprise policies dictate.

## What is the pricing structure for DDN?

Check out the pricing page here. [Hasura DDN Pricing](https://hasura.io/pricing/v3)

## What is the recommended approach to metadata authoring?

The DDN CLI and VS Code extension will help you author. You can use the CLI to create a local directory scaffolding for
you after which you can further author metadata using CLI commands and the VS Code extension. The console is intended to
tool and for running queries, visualization and monitoring.

We expect most metadata management will happen via the code driven tools that we have in DDN. We are investing in
extensive code generation capabilities via the Language Server Protocol baked into the IDE tools and users will still
get to enjoy the quick authoring experiences of v2 such as that of permission building, outside the console.

## I’m operating in a given cloud provider region. How can I have Hasura run in the same region?

Hasura DDN is strategically deployed in 10 regions worldwide. (We plan to increase coverage drastically as we move
closer to Beta and beyond) Depending on the origin of a request, we automatically activate an instance of Hasura in the
nearest region. This process is completed in under 10 milliseconds, ensuring consistently optimal performance, closest
to your users.

## Will Hasura DDN be compatible with Hasura v1/v2 and how do I migrate?

The default generated GraphQL schema (ie: the API your consumers use) of Hasura DDN is compatible with v2 schemas and
will not change. You can learn more about the similarities between Hasura v2 and Hasura DDN in
[these docs](/upgrade/feature-availability/api-features.mdx).

## Will Hasura v2 be supported after Hasura DDN is released?

We will still support, maintain and improve Hasura v2 as per our
[version support policy](https://hasura.io/docs/latest/policies/versioning/) and will be providing migration tools to
move Hasura v2 deployments to DDN in the near future.

## If I have an Alpha/Beta DDN project, will it be compatible with the GA release?

We recommend [creating a new project](/quickstart.mdx) and use the new CLI to populate metadata again.

## Will Hasura continue supporting existing plans, specifically, the Cloud Free and Professional plans?

Yes. We are committed to maintaining & supporting the Free and Professional plans to ensure there is no disruption to
our users.

## I heard DDN is built in Rust. Why Rust over Haskell?

We have a lot of love for Haskell. It's a beautiful language that we have been using for the Hasura engine since the
beginning, and will still be using it on Hasura v2. Without going into the weeds in a FAQ, we wanted to benefit from
Rust's performance, ecosystem and community for DDN. Rust is a modern, high-performance, and memory-safe language. It is
also gaining much traction in the cloud-native space, and we are excited to be using it for the significant parts of the
Hasura DDN codebase. If you are a Rust developer and want to do cool stuff, please check out our careers page.

## If currently running a v2.x will it be moved automatically to v3?

No, it will not. The v2 cloud projects will remain untouched and there will be no change of business. Moving to DDN will
be an opt-in process. Having said that, we strongly encourage upgrading to DDN early when features you require are
available. Our teams are available to make the migration process as smooth as possible and please keep an eye on our
[official announcements and releases](https://hasura.io/community/) for upcoming information about migration tools.

## Can we request to lock ourselves to 2.x?

The migration is an opt-in process, so you do not need to request to have yourselves locked to a particular version. If
however, you see no upgrade path even in the next two years, please give us a heads-up and we will work out options with
you.

Commit message:

add information about building own connector

docs/help/faq.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: FAQ
description:
  "Explore the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for Hasura DDN and get essential insights about its architecture, CI/CD
  features, benefits for developers, data connectivity, and more. Understand how Hasura DDN is transforming API
  management and modern application development."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn faq
  - hasura cli
  - microservices
  - api creation
  - app development
  - hasura ddn architecture
  - cloud service
  - data connectivity
  - hasura runtime engine
seoFrontMatterUpdated: true
---

# Hasura FAQ

## What is the general architecture of Hasura DDN?

Hasura DDN is built on the major advancements made in Hasura Version 3:

**Hasura Runtime Engine:** The Hasura Engine is responsible for processing and serving APIs based on provided metadata.
In DDN, the engine is has a clear separation of build time and runtime concerns which is analogous to compiled
programming languages. Metadata can now be authored, edited and built declaratively without causing any downtime. The
new engine can also serve production-grade APIs from the edge with extremely high performance since it accesses metadata
on a per-request basis and benefits from vastly improved startup times. Essentially the cold start problem has been
removed in DDN leading to zero-downtime rollouts.

**Native Data Connector (NDC) Specification:** The NDC specification describes how the API request will be executed and
how the engine will interact with the underlying data source and is a new data connectivity specification from Hasura.
In DDN, there is now no concept of "native databases" and access to all data sources and functionality including
PostgreSQL will be based on the native data connector specification, implemented via Connectors. This helps in providing
rich feature sets for _all_ data sources as compared to just a few select ones. Moreover, there is now a strong focus on
enabling the community to build data connector agents themselves. The specification and provided
[Rust](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-hub#rust-sdk) and [Typescript](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-sdk-typescript) SDKs
support building high-quality integrations for almost any conceivable data source (both databases and APIs), offering
features like native queries, push-down capabilities, and connection pooling. [Learn more](/data-sources/overview.mdx).

**Supergraph:** A supergraph is an architecture and operating model to build and scale multiple data domains (or
subgraphs) as a single graph of entities and operations.

**Subgraphs:** Subgraphs introduce a module system for metadata. They allow multi-team organizations working on a Hasura
project to segment access to different metadata objects. A project's metadata is the amalgamation of metadata objects
from all its subgraphs, and each subgraph can be accessed and updated independently. It also helps in avoiding conflicts
when there are, for example, tables with the same names in different data sources. [Learn
more](/project/configuration/overview.mdx **Hasura Cloud:** The cloud layer in Hasura DDN, Hasura Cloud, introduces the
Data Delivery Network (DDN) for global API performance and availability. This layer also offers tools for managing
projects, builds, subgraph and essentially represents the control plane for Hasura DDN.

**DDN CLI:** The new DDN CLI (Command-Line Interface), serves as a powerful tool for developers to interact with the
Hasura platform. It allows users to initialize projects, manage metadata, track objects, create builds, and deploy data
connectors that service an API in the cloud, easily. [Learn More](/reference/cli/index.mdx)

**DDN Console:** The DDN Console has been revamped to enable rapid onboarding, testing and troubleshooting. The console
now provides rich visualizations, deep dive metrics into models, enhanced traces, the new GraphiQL API explorer, new
operational health dashboard and a refurbished data manager that scales seamlessly with heavy loads.
[Learn More](https://console.hasura.io/)

**Builds:** Each metadata change in Hasura now results in an atomic build which is represented by an immutable artifact
that is loaded onto Hasura DDN instantly. Which means there is inherent version control and the ability to push metadata
changes instantly and without errors. [Learn more](/project/configuration/overview.mdx

## What will be the benefit for me, the developer? (Why would I want to use or switch to DDN?)

- Significant improvements to metadata authoring and management.
  - And end to the cold-start problem and instant changes to metadata. Deploy multiple times in an hour. Deploy with
    lightning speed and sub-second CI/CD.
  - No dependency on upstream services which means zero-downtime deployments.
  - Code driven workflows with advanced code generation tooling.
  - A single spec to define your whole API across diverse data sources and business logic.
  - Declarative metadata authoring with full control on API schema generation.
  - No metadata database - one less thing to manage in production.
- Connect to any data or run any business logic with Native Data Connectors (NDCs).
- Compose all your data sources, APIs and information into a single, powerful, inter-related supergraph.
- Work better with your team with improved version control and collaboration features.
- Unparalleled performance at any scale with optimized query execution and caching mechanisms.
- Access a global edge network for low-latency, high-performance APIs with the Data Delivery Network (DDN).
- Bring the programming language of your choice such as Typescript to compose business logic
- Perform advanced mutations and workflows within the request response lifecycle.

## What are the benefits of Subgraphs?

- **Modular Development:** Subgraphs promote modular development by allowing teams to independently develop, test, and
  deploy their code without impacting the functionality of other subgraphs. This can also be done in independent
  repositories for each subgraph, in a "multi-repo" setup. This modular approach simplifies code management and reduces
  the risk of breaking changes. Subgraphs can be tested in context of the full supergraph to ensure that they work as
  expected when combined.
- **Independent Deployment:** Subgraphs can also be deployed individually, ensuring that updates to one subgraph do not
  require downtime for the entire supergraph. This flexibility allows for continuous integration and delivery (CI/CD)
  practices that accelerate feature releases.
- **Improved Collaboration:** Subgraphs allow different teams to focus on their specialized data domains, fostering
  collaboration by enabling them to share their APIs and data through a unified interface. This collaborative but
  isolated workflow environment accelerates development times and reduces friction between teams.
- **Strong Governance:** Hasura DDN provides robust governance features, such as project collaboration roles and
  permissions that ensure data integrity and security across subgraphs. These features enable teams to enforce data
  policies and restrictions, protecting sensitive information and maintaining compliance with regulatory requirements.
- **Efficient Data Management:** Federation simplifies data management by enabling teams to work with smaller, more
  manageable data domains. Teams can focus on their specific data requirements without being overwhelmed by the entire
  data schema.

## What CI/CD features does Hasura DDN offer?

**Instant CI/CD:** Hasura brings instant CI/CD capabilities, enabling developers to test and validate changes rapidly.

**CLI-Controlled Development:** The Hasura Command-Line Interface (CLI) plays a central role in controlling and managing
metadata builds and connector deployments. It allows developers to manage projects, create builds and promote them to
production. This CLI-centric approach simplifies the deployment process and enables time-saving CI/CD pipelines.
[Learn more](/reference/cli/index.mdx)

**Builds and Project Shares:** With Hasura, metadata states are represented as builds. Once a build is thoroughly tested
and validated, it can be applied to a project as the live API and made available to API consumers globally. This
separation of build and production steps ensure a smoother transition from development to production.

**Extremely Fast Builds:** Hasura also introduces cloud innovations that allow metadata builds to be created instantly,
regardless of the number of models. This means that updating even a large number of models is a swift and seamless
process and developers can rapidly test multiple builds within a day.

**Zero Downtime Rollouts:** With Hasura, going to production is facilitated without restarts and with zero downtime.
This ensures that your API remains available to users while updates are being applied.

**Metadata Version Control:** Hasura includes in-product metadata version control. Each build is associated with a
unique build ID, making it easier to track and manage different versions of your metadata. This enhances transparency
and auditability during the development process.

## What can be automated?

Since metadata authoring is mostly code driven using the
[Hasura VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=HasuraHQ.hasura) and the CLI, many
metadata related changes can be automated using a version management and CI/CD tool of your choice.

## How does Hasura DDN connect to data sources?

Native Data Connectors (NDC) are a framework introduced in Hasura DDN that enables developers to use pre-built data
connector agents or build their own.

You can think of Data Connectors as a bridge or driver between Hasura DDN and external data sources.

Data Connectors facilitate the integration between Hasura and external data sources, allowing Hasura to seamlessly
interact with a wide range of databases, services, and APIs. NDCs can be built for almost any conceivable source of data
and are the only way to connect to data sources in Hasura DDN.

Native Data Connectors can either be self-hosted or hosted by Hasura. [Learn more](/data-sources/overview.mdx)

## I just have a database, why do I need to know about Data Connectors?

Essentially, you don’t. You can rely on our Hasura VS Code Extension and Hasura CLI to do much of the code generation
and validation, but with knowledge of Data Connectors you will better understand your Supergraph architecture and you
can build custom integrations to any data source or custom function or API.

If you're interested in this you can check out our Rust or
[Typescript SDKs](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-sdk-typescript), and also our
[Node.js Lambda Typescript Connector](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-nodejs-lambda).

## How do I build my own data connector?

You can find information about building a connector in the [NDC Spec](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-spec) and the
rendered [NDC Spec data connector tutorial](https://hasura.github.io/ndc-spec/tutorial/index.html) as well as the SDKs
for various languages:

- [Rust](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-sdk-rs)
- [TypeScript](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-sdk-typescript)
- [Python](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-sdk-python)
- [Go](https://github.com/hasura/ndc-sdk-go)

## Is Hasura DDN open source?

The [Hasura DDN engine](https://github.com/hasura/graphql-engine/tree/master/v3) and all
[Hasura data connectors](https://hasura.io/connectors) are open-source and can be run on your own infrastructure. With
the optimizations and features that Hasura DDN offers at the price point, our cloud service is the best way to use
Hasura and self-hosting should be an option when specific requirements are needed and enterprise policies dictate.

## What is the pricing structure for DDN?

Check out the pricing page here. [Hasura DDN Pricing](https://hasura.io/pricing/v3)

## What is the recommended approach to metadata authoring?

The DDN CLI and VS Code extension will help you author. You can use the CLI to create a local directory scaffolding for
you after which you can further author metadata using CLI commands and the VS Code extension. The console is intended to
tool and for running queries, visualization and monitoring.

We expect most metadata management will happen via the code driven tools that we have in DDN. We are investing in
extensive code generation capabilities via the Language Server Protocol baked into the IDE tools and users will still
get to enjoy the quick authoring experiences of v2 such as that of permission building, outside the console.

## I’m operating in a given cloud provider region. How can I have Hasura run in the same region?

Hasura DDN is strategically deployed in 10 regions worldwide. (We plan to increase coverage drastically as we move
closer to Beta and beyond) Depending on the origin of a request, we automatically activate an instance of Hasura in the
nearest region. This process is completed in under 10 milliseconds, ensuring consistently optimal performance, closest
to your users.

## Will Hasura DDN be compatible with Hasura v1/v2 and how do I migrate?

The default generated GraphQL schema (ie: the API your consumers use) of Hasura DDN is compatible with v2 schemas and
will not change. You can learn more about the similarities between Hasura v2 and Hasura DDN in
[these docs](/upgrade/feature-availability/api-features.mdx).

## Will Hasura v2 be supported after Hasura DDN is released?

We will still support, maintain and improve Hasura v2 as per our
[version support policy](https://hasura.io/docs/latest/policies/versioning/) and will be providing migration tools to
move Hasura v2 deployments to DDN in the near future.

## If I have an Alpha/Beta DDN project, will it be compatible with the GA release?

We recommend [creating a new project](/quickstart.mdx) and use the new CLI to populate metadata again.

## Will Hasura continue supporting existing plans, specifically, the Cloud Free and Professional plans?

Yes. We are committed to maintaining & supporting the Free and Professional plans to ensure there is no disruption to
our users.

## I heard DDN is built in Rust. Why Rust over Haskell?

We have a lot of love for Haskell. It's a beautiful language that we have been using for the Hasura engine since the
beginning, and will still be using it on Hasura v2. Without going into the weeds in a FAQ, we wanted to benefit from
Rust's performance, ecosystem and community for DDN. Rust is a modern, high-performance, and memory-safe language. It is
also gaining much traction in the cloud-native space, and we are excited to be using it for the significant parts of the
Hasura DDN codebase. If you are a Rust developer and want to do cool stuff, please check out our careers page.

## If currently running a v2.x will it be moved automatically to v3?

No, it will not. The v2 cloud projects will remain untouched and there will be no change of business. Moving to DDN will
be an opt-in process. Having said that, we strongly encourage upgrading to DDN early when features you require are
available. Our teams are available to make the migration process as smooth as possible and please keep an eye on our
[official announcements and releases](https://hasura.io/community/) for upcoming information about migration tools.

## Can we request to lock ourselves to 2.x?

The migration is an opt-in process, so you do not need to request to have yourselves locked to a particular version. If
however, you see no upgrade path even in the next two years, please give us a heads-up and we will work out options with
you.
