docs/help/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: Overview
sidebar_position: 1
description: ""
sidebar_label: Overview
keywords:
  - help
---

# Overview

There are a few ways to get help with Hasura DDN.

## 1. Check the docs

Obviously, these docs are a great place to start.

First, check out the [quickstart](/quickstart.mdx) guide to get started, and/or the
[tutorials](/how-to-build-with-ddn/overview.mdx) to get started with your chosen first data source. You can then move on
to the [data sources](data-sources/overview.mdx) and [data modeling](data-modeling/overview.mdx) sections to learn how
to model and work with your data. You will then likely want to jump around to other sections such as
[auth](auth/overview.mdx), [observability](observability/overview.mdx), [deployment](deployment/overview.mdx), and more.

Also check out the [frequently asked questions](/help/faq.mdx) and the [glossary](/help/glossary.mdx) in this help
section.

## 2. Ask the bot

The DocsBot is an AI assistant powered by OpenAI's GPT-4o model that can help answer questions about Hasura DDN by
referencing these docs. You can find the chat window by clicking the "Docs Assistant" button in the header.

## 3. Ask the community

We have a Discord server where you can ask questions and get help from the community and Hasura champions.
[Join here](https://discord.com/invite/hasura).

## 4. Ask the support team

If you have a paid plan, you can [ask the support team for help](https://hasurahelp.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/requests/new).

Commit message:

Docs: Update help overview
Updates the help overview to highlight and differentiate between non-paying and paying customers.

docs/help/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: Overview
sidebar_position: 1
description: "Get Help with Hasura DDN."
sidebar_label: Overview
keywords:
  - help
---

# Overview

## Self-Serve Options

### Explore the Docs and Get Help

Start by exploring our [quickstart guide](/quickstart.mdx) to get up and running or dive into the
[tutorials](/how-to-build-with-ddn/overview.mdx) for a step-by-step approach written specifically for your first data
source. Once you're comfortable, expand your knowledge with sections like [data sources](data-sources/overview.mdx),
[data modeling](data-modeling/overview.mdx), [auth](auth/overview.mdx), [observability](observability/overview.mdx), and
[deployment](deployment/overview.mdx).

For quick answers to common questions, visit our [frequently asked questions](/help/faq.mdx) and
[glossary](/help/glossary.mdx) sections.

Need additional guidance? The DocsBot, powered by OpenAI's GPT-4o model, is here to help! Click the "Docs Assistant"
button in the header to get tailored answers directly from our documentation.

### Ask the community

- We have a Discord server where you can ask questions and get help from the community and Hasura champions.
  [Join here](https://discord.com/invite/hasura).
- Additionally, you can create a GitHub issue for any bugs or feature requests
  [here](https://github.com/hasura/graphql-engine/issues).

## Enterprise Clients

If you have a paid plan or a dedicated Enterprise contract, you can
[ask the support team for help](https://hasurahelp.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/requests/new).

For details on our Service-Level Agreements (SLAs), version support, data privacy, or submitting feature requests and
bug fixes, please refer to our [policies documentation](/help/policies/index.mdx). This comprehensive resource outlines
everything you need to know about our commitments, processes, and how we handle updates for Enterprise clients.
