docs/help/security.mdx, before:

---
title: Security
sidebar_position: 2.8
description:
  "Overview of security measures and practices within Hasura DDN, including data encryption, access control, and
  compliance with industry standards."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - security
  - data encryption
  - access control
  - compliance
  - metadata encryption
  - data transmission
  - authentication
  - multi-factor authentication
  - MFA
  - SAML
  - SSO
---

# Security in Hasura DDN

## Introduction

Hasura DDN is designed with a strong emphasis on security, ensuring that your data and APIs are protected through
various measures. This document outlines the key security features and practices implemented within Hasura DDN, covering
data encryption, access control, network security, and authentication.

## Data Encryption

### Encryption at Rest

All metadata stored within Hasura DDN is encrypted at rest using the **AES-GCM-256** algorithm. This industry-standard
encryption ensures that your data is secure even if the underlying storage is compromised. Hasura also uses **Envelope
encryption** for the keys themselves.

### Encryption in Transit

All communication between your client applications, the Hasura DDN engine, and configured data connectors is secured
using **HTTPS/TLS 1.2** or higher. This ensures that your data is encrypted during transmission, protecting it from
interception or tampering.

### Network Connectivity Requirements

When using Hasura public DDN connectors to connect to your data sources, these sources must be accessible from the
internet (allowing connections from `0.0.0.0/0`). This is because Hasura DDN operates from dynamic IP addresses and does
not provide static IP addresses for connections.

If your security requirements necessitate the use of static IP addresses or private network connectivity, consider using
[Hasura Private DDN](/private-ddn/overview.mdx), which allows you to host the data plane within your own infrastructure.

## Metadata Storage and Handling

### Types of Metadata Stored

Hasura DDN's control plane stores metadata related to your project's configuration. This metadata includes:

- **HML (Hasura Metadata Language) files:** These files define the structure of your API, including data source
  information such as table names, column names, relationships, and permissions.
- **Subgraph information:** Details about your project's subgraphs.
- **User access information:** RBAC rules and policies that determines supergraph and subgraph access for users.

:::note

Connection string or data source credentials used by the connectors are managed as secrets.

:::

### Data Retention

Metadata is retained for as long as a build is available on the system. When a build is deleted, the associated metadata
is also deleted. Read more about deleting builds [here](/reference/cli/commands/ddn_supergraph_build_delete.mdx).

## Access Control

Hasura DDN employs a robust role-based access control (RBAC) system. You can define granular permissions to control
which users or roles can access specific data and operations. This ensures that only authorized users can perform
actions based on their assigned roles.

[Learn more about permissions](/data-modeling/permissions.mdx).

## Authentication

Hasura DDN offers flexible authentication options utilising JWT tokens or webhooks, that allow you to integrate with
many auth services or use your own.

### Authentication Modes

Hasura DDN offers the following authentication modes:

- **JWT Mode:** Integrate with popular authentication providers like Auth0, AWS Cognito, Firebase, and Clerk.
- **Webhook Mode:** Use a custom webhook for authentication in unique scenarios.
- **NoAuth Mode:** For testing or development, or for fully public APIs, you can use NoAuth mode, which requires no
  authentication.

### Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)

Currently, Hasura DDN does not natively support MFA for console login. However, the recommended approach for enterprise
clients is to integrate with a corporate Identity Provider (IDP) via SAML, allowing you to leverage your existing
identity and multi-factor authentication infrastructure, and ensuring a consistent, and secure, access management
process.

If you use a corporate email address to sign up for Hasura DDN, the password you choose is tied only to our system and
you can set it to whatever you'd like.

## Self-Hosted Data Plane

For enhanced security and control, Hasura Private DDN allows the data plane to be hosted within your own infrastructure.
This ensures that the data processing and API execution occur within your controlled environment, providing an added
layer of security. [Learn more](/private-ddn/overview.mdx).

## Access Tokens

Hasura DDN provides two types of access tokens for supergraph management: Personal Access Tokens (PATs) and Service
Account Tokens.

### Personal Access Tokens (PATs)

Personal Access Tokens (PATs) are designed for individual users to interact with the Hasura DDN Control Plane. These
tokens are tied to your user account and are ideal for development, testing, and accessing the Hasura Console.

- **Usage:** Primarily used for accessing the Hasura Console and authenticating the DDN CLI during development and
  testing.
- **Security:** Linked to a user account; not to be shared or used in production environments.
- **Generation:** Create and manage PATs through your
  [account settings](https://cloud.hasura.io/account-settings/access-tokens) on the Hasura Cloud dashboard or via the
  DDN CLI with the `ddn auth login` command and `ddn auth print-pat` command.

### Service Account Tokens

Service Account Tokens are designed for applications, services, or automated processes that need to interact with the
Hasura DDN Control Plane.

- **Usage:** Ideal for continuous integration and continuous deployment (CI/CD) pipelines, automated scripts, and
  backend services.
- **Security:** Associated with a project, not an individual user.
- **Generation:** You can create new service accounts and manage tokens for existing ones via your project's
  `Settings` > `Service Accounts` tab of the console.

## Securely Managing Secrets

Hasura DDN strongly recommends using environment variables to manage sensitive information, such as API keys, database
connection strings, and other credentials. This practice enhances security by keeping secrets out of your codebase and
metadata files.

Hasura DDN employs envelope encryption to secure all sensitive information, including secrets and metadata.

### Best Practices

1.  **Use Environment Variables:** Store sensitive information in environment variables rather than hardcoding them
    directly into your configuration files.

2.  **Local Development:** For local development, use `.env` files to manage environment variables. The DDN CLI
    automatically recognizes and loads these files.

3.  **Cloud Deployment:** When deploying to Hasura DDN, use the project's `.env.cloud` file.

4.  **Connector Configuration:** When configuring data connectors, use the `valueFromEnv` option to reference
    environment variables. This ensures that sensitive values are loaded from the environment rather than being stored
    directly in the configuration.

```yaml
# Example of using valueFromEnv in a connector configuration
kind: DataConnectorLink
version: v1
definition:
  name: my_connector
  url:
    readWriteUrls:
      read:
        valueFromEnv: MY_CONNECTOR_READ_URL # URL is stored as an env var
      write:
        valueFromEnv: MY_CONNECTOR_WRITE_URL # URL is stored as an env var
  headers:
    Authorization:
      valueFromEnv: MY_CONNECTOR_AUTHORIZATION_HEADER # API Key/Secret is stored as an env var
  schema: ...
```

5.  **Gitignore:** Ensure that your `.env` files, and any other files that might hold secrets, are added to your
    `.gitignore` file. This will prevent these files from being committed to version control.

### Metadata Immutability and Secret Protection

Once a supergraph build is created, the metadata associated with that build, including any resolved values from
environment variables, is immutable and encrypted at rest. Critically, **secrets incorporated into the build via
environment variables are not directly exposed or retrievable from the built metadata once on the control plane**.

You can retrieve a build using the `ddn supergraph build get <build-version>` command, however, this will not expose
secrets. Hasura DDN's architecture ensures that the metadata build artifacts and the engine's GraphQL API do not expose
sensitive information.

This immutability and security design ensures that once deployed, your API's configuration cannot be tampered with, and
sensitive information is protected from exposure.

## Native Operations and Security

Hasura DDN allows you to extend the GraphQL API using native queries and mutations, providing direct access to the
underlying data source's capabilities. However, this comes with the responsibility of preventing vulnerabilities.

**Important Considerations:**

- **Code Injection:** When using native operations with user-provided input, _you are responsible for preventing code
  injection vulnerabilities_. Carefully sanitize and validate all inputs to avoid potential security risks.
- **Connector-Specific Guidance:** Review the documentation for your specific data connector (e.g.,
  [PostgreSQL](/reference/connectors/postgresql/native-operations/index.mdx),
  [MongoDB](/reference/connectors/mongodb/native-operations/index.mdx)) for detailed information on secure usage of
  native operations.
- See example of escaping inputs with the
  [MongoDB connector](/reference/connectors/mongodb/native-operations/security-best-practices.mdx).

## Disable APIs

Instead of exposing all APIs in your supergraph, assess your requirements and disable any APIs that are not required.

## Need more information?

Check out these common questions, and if you still need help, reach out to us on
[Discord](https://discord.com/invite/hasura) or through our
[support portal](https://hasurahelp.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/requests/new).

Join the [Hasura Security Announcements](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/hasura-security-announce) group for
emails about security announcements.

---

{/* Internal Operational stuff */}

{/* O11y security */}

{/* ## Verify permissions */}

{/* ## Configure max connections */}

{/* ## Disable dev mode */}

{/* ## Set up an allow-list */}

{/* ## Restrict CORS domains */}

{/* ## Configure a load balancer */}

{/* ## Configure logging */}

Commit message:

Refine security documentation on metadata immutability and secret protection

docs/help/security.mdx, after:

---
title: Security
sidebar_position: 2.8
description:
  "Overview of security measures and practices within Hasura DDN, including data encryption, access control, and
  compliance with industry standards."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - security
  - data encryption
  - access control
  - compliance
  - metadata encryption
  - data transmission
  - authentication
  - multi-factor authentication
  - MFA
  - SAML
  - SSO
---

# Security in Hasura DDN

## Introduction

Hasura DDN is designed with a strong emphasis on security, ensuring that your data and APIs are protected through
various measures. This document outlines the key security features and practices implemented within Hasura DDN, covering
data encryption, access control, network security, and authentication.

## Data Encryption

### Encryption at Rest

All metadata stored within Hasura DDN is encrypted at rest using the **AES-GCM-256** algorithm. This industry-standard
encryption ensures that your data is secure even if the underlying storage is compromised. Hasura also uses **Envelope
encryption** for the keys themselves.

### Encryption in Transit

All communication between your client applications, the Hasura DDN engine, and configured data connectors is secured
using **HTTPS/TLS 1.2** or higher. This ensures that your data is encrypted during transmission, protecting it from
interception or tampering.

### Network Connectivity Requirements

When using Hasura public DDN connectors to connect to your data sources, these sources must be accessible from the
internet (allowing connections from `0.0.0.0/0`). This is because Hasura DDN operates from dynamic IP addresses and does
not provide static IP addresses for connections.

If your security requirements necessitate the use of static IP addresses or private network connectivity, consider using
[Hasura Private DDN](/private-ddn/overview.mdx), which allows you to host the data plane within your own infrastructure.

## Metadata Storage and Handling

### Types of Metadata Stored

Hasura DDN's control plane stores metadata related to your project's configuration. This metadata includes:

- **HML (Hasura Metadata Language) files:** These files define the structure of your API, including data source
  information such as table names, column names, relationships, and permissions.
- **Subgraph information:** Details about your project's subgraphs.
- **User access information:** RBAC rules and policies that determines supergraph and subgraph access for users.

:::note

Connection string or data source credentials used by the connectors are managed as secrets.

:::

### Data Retention

Metadata is retained for as long as a build is available on the system. When a build is deleted, the associated metadata
is also deleted. Read more about deleting builds [here](/reference/cli/commands/ddn_supergraph_build_delete.mdx).

## Access Control

Hasura DDN employs a robust role-based access control (RBAC) system. You can define granular permissions to control
which users or roles can access specific data and operations. This ensures that only authorized users can perform
actions based on their assigned roles.

[Learn more about permissions](/data-modeling/permissions.mdx).

## Authentication

Hasura DDN offers flexible authentication options utilising JWT tokens or webhooks, that allow you to integrate with
many auth services or use your own.

### Authentication Modes

Hasura DDN offers the following authentication modes:

- **JWT Mode:** Integrate with popular authentication providers like Auth0, AWS Cognito, Firebase, and Clerk.
- **Webhook Mode:** Use a custom webhook for authentication in unique scenarios.
- **NoAuth Mode:** For testing or development, or for fully public APIs, you can use NoAuth mode, which requires no
  authentication.

### Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)

Currently, Hasura DDN does not natively support MFA for console login. However, the recommended approach for enterprise
clients is to integrate with a corporate Identity Provider (IDP) via SAML, allowing you to leverage your existing
identity and multi-factor authentication infrastructure, and ensuring a consistent, and secure, access management
process.

If you use a corporate email address to sign up for Hasura DDN, the password you choose is tied only to our system and
you can set it to whatever you'd like.

## Self-Hosted Data Plane

For enhanced security and control, Hasura Private DDN allows the data plane to be hosted within your own infrastructure.
This ensures that the data processing and API execution occur within your controlled environment, providing an added
layer of security. [Learn more](/private-ddn/overview.mdx).

## Access Tokens

Hasura DDN provides two types of access tokens for supergraph management: Personal Access Tokens (PATs) and Service
Account Tokens.

### Personal Access Tokens (PATs)

Personal Access Tokens (PATs) are designed for individual users to interact with the Hasura DDN Control Plane. These
tokens are tied to your user account and are ideal for development, testing, and accessing the Hasura Console.

- **Usage:** Primarily used for accessing the Hasura Console and authenticating the DDN CLI during development and
  testing.
- **Security:** Linked to a user account; not to be shared or used in production environments.
- **Generation:** Create and manage PATs through your
  [account settings](https://cloud.hasura.io/account-settings/access-tokens) on the Hasura Cloud dashboard or via the
  DDN CLI with the `ddn auth login` command and `ddn auth print-pat` command.

### Service Account Tokens

Service Account Tokens are designed for applications, services, or automated processes that need to interact with the
Hasura DDN Control Plane.

- **Usage:** Ideal for continuous integration and continuous deployment (CI/CD) pipelines, automated scripts, and
  backend services.
- **Security:** Associated with a project, not an individual user.
- **Generation:** You can create new service accounts and manage tokens for existing ones via your project's
  `Settings` > `Service Accounts` tab of the console.

## Securely Managing Secrets

Hasura DDN strongly recommends using environment variables to manage sensitive information, such as API keys, database
connection strings, and other credentials. This practice enhances security by keeping secrets out of your codebase and
metadata files.

Hasura DDN employs envelope encryption to secure all sensitive information, including secrets and metadata.

### Best Practices

1.  **Use Environment Variables:** Store sensitive information in environment variables rather than hardcoding them
    directly into your configuration files.

2.  **Local Development:** For local development, use `.env` files to manage environment variables. The DDN CLI
    automatically recognizes and loads these files.

3.  **Cloud Deployment:** When deploying to Hasura DDN, use the project's `.env.cloud` file.

4.  **Connector Configuration:** When configuring data connectors, use the `valueFromEnv` option to reference
    environment variables. This ensures that sensitive values are loaded from the environment rather than being stored
    directly in the configuration.

```yaml
# Example of using valueFromEnv in a connector configuration
kind: DataConnectorLink
version: v1
definition:
  name: my_connector
  url:
    readWriteUrls:
      read:
        valueFromEnv: MY_CONNECTOR_READ_URL # URL is stored as an env var
      write:
        valueFromEnv: MY_CONNECTOR_WRITE_URL # URL is stored as an env var
  headers:
    Authorization:
      valueFromEnv: MY_CONNECTOR_AUTHORIZATION_HEADER # API Key/Secret is stored as an env var
  schema: ...
```

5.  **Gitignore:** Ensure that your `.env` files, and any other files that might hold secrets, are added to your
    `.gitignore` file. This will prevent these files from being committed to version control.

### Metadata Immutability and Secret Protection

### Metadata Immutability and Secret Protection

Once a supergraph build is created, the metadata associated with that build, including any resolved values from
environment variables, is immutable and encrypted using envelope encryption. This design allows Private DDNs to use
their own master encryption keys for enhanced security. Critically, **secrets incorporated into the build via
environment variables are not directly exposed or retrievable from the built metadata once on the control plane**.

## Native Operations and Security

Hasura DDN allows you to extend the GraphQL API using native queries and mutations, providing direct access to the
underlying data source's capabilities. However, this comes with the responsibility of preventing vulnerabilities.

**Important Considerations:**

- **Code Injection:** When using native operations with user-provided input, _you are responsible for preventing code
  injection vulnerabilities_. Carefully sanitize and validate all inputs to avoid potential security risks.
- **Connector-Specific Guidance:** Review the documentation for your specific data connector (e.g.,
  [PostgreSQL](/reference/connectors/postgresql/native-operations/index.mdx),
  [MongoDB](/reference/connectors/mongodb/native-operations/index.mdx)) for detailed information on secure usage of
  native operations.
- See example of escaping inputs with the
  [MongoDB connector](/reference/connectors/mongodb/native-operations/security-best-practices.mdx).

## Disable APIs

Instead of exposing all APIs in your supergraph, assess your requirements and disable any APIs that are not required.

## Need more information?

Check out these common questions, and if you still need help, reach out to us on
[Discord](https://discord.com/invite/hasura) or through our
[support portal](https://hasurahelp.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/requests/new).

Join the [Hasura Security Announcements](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/hasura-security-announce) group for
emails about security announcements.

---

{/* Internal Operational stuff */}

{/* O11y security */}

{/* ## Verify permissions */}

{/* ## Configure max connections */}

{/* ## Disable dev mode */}

{/* ## Set up an allow-list */}

{/* ## Restrict CORS domains */}

{/* ## Configure a load balancer */}

{/* ## Configure logging */}
