docs/project-configuration/project-management/manage-collaborators.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: Manage project collaborators
description: "Learn how to invite others to a project."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - graphql api
  - quickstart
  - getting started
  - guide
  - collaborate
---

import Thumbnail from "@site/src/components/Thumbnail";

# How to Mange Project Collaborators

## Introduction

Hasura DDN allows multiple users and teams to work together as collaborators on projects by assigning each user specific
roles and permissions.

You can [invite users](#invite-collaborators) to a project, or allow them to [request access](#request-access).

:::info Only available on DDN Base and higher

In order to add collaborators, your project must either be a
[DDN Base or DDN Advanced project](https://hasura.io/pricing).

:::

## Available roles {#roles}

| Role                      | Abilities                                                                                            |
| ------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Owner**                 | All Project abilities including deletion. At this time, project ownership is not transferable.       |
| **Admin**                 | Same as a Project Owner, excluding deletion of the project.                                          |
| **Read Only**             | Only explore and visualize the supergraph.                                                           |
| **Subgraph Admin** \*     | All subgraph development-related abilities: create subgraph build, apply subgraph build to endpoint. |
| **Subgraph Developer** \* | Same as a subgraph admin, excluding the ability to apply subgraph build to endpoint.                 |

\* Subgraph roles are only available on [DDN Advanced projects](https://hasura.io/pricing/ddn).

The following are the detailed permissions for the above roles:

| Permissions                                                         | Owner | Admin | Read Only | Subgraph<br/> Admin \* | Subgraph<br/> Developer \* |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----- | ----- | --------- | ---------------------- | -------------------------- |
| View Supergraph Explorer                                            | ✅    | ✅    | ✅        | ✅                     | ✅                         |
| Make GraphQL API requests                                           | ✅    | ✅    | ✅        | ✅                     | ✅                         |
| View project insights                                               | ✅    | ✅    | ✅        | ✅                     | ✅                         |
| Create supergraph builds<br/> - using all subgraphs' metadata       | ✅    | ✅    | ❌        | ❌                     | ❌                         |
| Create supergraph builds<br/> - using single subgraph's metadata \* | ✅    | ✅    | ❌        | ✅                     | ✅                         |
| Apply supergraph builds to project endpoint                         | ✅    | ✅    | ❌        | ❌                     | ❌                         |
| Create subgraph builds \*                                           | ✅    | ✅    | ❌        | ✅                     | ✅                         |
| Apply subgraph builds to project endpoint \*                        | ✅    | ✅    | ❌        | ✅                     | ❌                         |
| Admin permissions on all subgraphs                                  | ✅    | ✅    | ❌        | ❌                     | ❌                         |
| Create / Delete subgraphs                                           | ✅    | ✅    | ❌        | ❌                     | ❌                         |
| Add / Remove collaborators                                          | ✅    | ✅    | ❌        | ❌                     | ❌                         |
| Manage project plans and billing                                    | ✅    | ✅    | ❌        | ❌                     | ❌                         |
| Delete project                                                      | ✅    | ❌    | ❌        | ❌                     | ❌                         |

\* Only available on [DDN Advanced projects](https://hasura.io/pricing/ddn).

## How to invite collaborators {#invite-collaborators}

### Step 1. Navigate to the Collaborators section

Open your project's console at [https://console.hasura.io](https://console.hasura.io) and select it from the list of
available projects. Once the project is open, click `Settings` in the bottom-left corner and then select `Collaborators`
from the `Project Settings` menu:

<Thumbnail src="/img/ci-cd/0.0.1_console_invite-collaborator.png" alt="Invite a collaborator" width="1000" />

### Step 2. Enter information

Click the `+ Invite Collaborator` button in the top-right corner of the `Collaborators` section and enter the
collaborator's email address, select the access level you'd like to assign them, and click `Invite`.

<Thumbnail src="/img/ci-cd/0.0.1_console_assign-collaborator-role.png" alt="Invite a collaborator" width="1000" />

<br />
:::info Granular Access (Subgraph Collaborators) Only available on DDN Advanced

In order to add subgraph collaborators, your project must be a [DDN Advanced project](https://hasura.io/pricing/ddn).

:::

The invitee will receive an email with a link allowing them to accept the invite and join the project.

## How to accept a collaboration invite {#accept-invite}

### Step 1. Click the link in your email

From your email, click the `View invitation` button. This will send you to
[https://console.hasura.io](https://console.hasura.io) where you can accept it and then explore and contribute to the
project according your [role](#roles).

### Step 2. Explore the project

From your new project, you can explore the console by:

- [Running queries](/graphql-api/queries/) from the GraphiQL explorer.
- Visualizing the supergraph with the Explorer tab.
- Seeing other collaborators present in the project.

### Step 3. Learn how to develop locally

The owner of the project most likely has a Git repository with the project's contents available on a service such as
GitHub. To run the supergraph locally, and make contributions to the deployed supergraph,
[pick up here](/quickstart.mdx) in our getting started docs.

## Allow users to request access {#request-access}

You can adjust your project's settings to allow users to request access when navigating to your project's URL. To do
this, click the `Share` button in the top navigation of your project and select `Request Access`.

<Thumbnail
  src="/img/get-started/console_read-only.png"
  alt="Allow users to request access to your project"
  width="1000"
/>

Each time a user requests access, you'll be able to approve or deny the request from this modal.

## More information

See more about Hasura DDN plans and pricing [here](/reference/pricing.mdx).

Commit message:

docs: introduce service accounts (#843)
Co-authored-by: hasura-bot <accounts@hasura.io>
Co-authored-by: Julian <118911427+julian-mayorga@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Sean Park-Ross <94021366+seanparkross@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Julian Mayorga <julian.mayorga@hasura.io>
Co-authored-by: Sean Park-Ross <sean@hasura.io>

docs/project-configuration/project-management/manage-collaborators.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: Manage project collaborators
description: "Learn how to invite others to a project."
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - graphql api
  - quickstart
  - getting started
  - guide
  - collaborate
---

import Thumbnail from "@site/src/components/Thumbnail";

# How to Mange Project Collaborators

## Introduction

Hasura DDN allows multiple users and teams to work together as collaborators on projects by assigning each user specific
roles and permissions.

You can [invite users](#invite-collaborators) to a project, or allow users to [request access](#request-access).

:::info Only available on DDN Base and higher

In order to add collaborators, your project must either be a
[DDN Base or DDN Advanced project](https://hasura.io/pricing).

:::

## Available roles {#roles}

| Role                      | Abilities                                                                                            |
| ------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Owner**                 | All Project abilities including deletion. At this time, project ownership is not transferable.       |
| **Admin**                 | Same as a Project Owner, excluding deletion of the project.                                          |
| **Read Only**             | Only explore and visualize the supergraph.                                                           |
| **Subgraph Admin** \*     | All subgraph development-related abilities: create subgraph build, apply subgraph build to endpoint. |
| **Subgraph Developer** \* | Same as a subgraph admin, excluding the ability to apply subgraph build to endpoint.                 |

\* Subgraph roles are only available on [DDN Advanced projects](https://hasura.io/pricing/ddn).

The following are the detailed permissions for the above roles:

| Permissions                                                         | Owner | Admin | Read Only | Subgraph<br/> Admin \* | Subgraph<br/> Developer \* |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----- | ----- | --------- | ---------------------- | -------------------------- |
| View Supergraph Explorer                                            | ✅    | ✅    | ✅        | ✅                     | ✅                         |
| Make GraphQL API requests                                           | ✅    | ✅    | ✅        | ✅                     | ✅                         |
| View project insights                                               | ✅    | ✅    | ✅        | ✅                     | ✅                         |
| Create supergraph builds<br/> - using all subgraphs' metadata       | ✅    | ✅    | ❌        | ❌                     | ❌                         |
| Create supergraph builds<br/> - using single subgraph's metadata \* | ✅    | ✅    | ❌        | ✅                     | ✅                         |
| Apply supergraph builds to project endpoint                         | ✅    | ✅    | ❌        | ❌                     | ❌                         |
| Create subgraph builds \*                                           | ✅    | ✅    | ❌        | ✅                     | ✅                         |
| Apply subgraph builds to project endpoint \*                        | ✅    | ✅    | ❌        | ✅                     | ❌                         |
| Admin permissions on all subgraphs                                  | ✅    | ✅    | ❌        | ❌                     | ❌                         |
| Create / Delete subgraphs                                           | ✅    | ✅    | ❌        | ❌                     | ❌                         |
| Add / Remove collaborators                                          | ✅    | ✅    | ❌        | ❌                     | ❌                         |
| Manage project plans and billing                                    | ✅    | ✅    | ❌        | ❌                     | ❌                         |
| Delete project                                                      | ✅    | ❌    | ❌        | ❌                     | ❌                         |
| Create / Delete service accounts                                    | ✅    | ✅    | ❌        | ❌                     | ❌                         |
| Regenerate service account        token                             | ✅    | ✅    | ❌        | ❌                     | ❌                         |

\* Only available on [DDN Advanced projects](https://hasura.io/pricing/ddn).

## How to invite collaborators {#invite-collaborators}

### Step 1. Navigate to the Collaborators section

Open your project's console at [https://console.hasura.io](https://console.hasura.io) and select it from the list of
available projects. Once the project is open, click `Settings` in the bottom-left corner and then select `Collaborators`
from the `Project Settings` menu:

<Thumbnail src="/img/ci-cd/0.0.1_console_invite-collaborator.png" alt="Invite a collaborator" width="1000" />

### Step 2. Enter information

Click the `+ Invite Collaborator` button in the top-right corner of the `Collaborators` section and enter the
collaborator's email address, select the access level you'd like to assign them, and click `Invite`.

<Thumbnail src="/img/ci-cd/0.0.1_console_assign-collaborator-role.png" alt="Invite a collaborator" width="1000" />

<br />
:::info Granular Access (Subgraph Collaborators) Only available on DDN Advanced

In order to add subgraph collaborators, your project must be a [DDN Advanced project](https://hasura.io/pricing/ddn).

:::

The invitee will receive an email with a link allowing them to accept the invite and join the project.

## How to accept a collaboration invite {#accept-invite}

### Step 1. Click the link in your email

From your email, click the `View invitation` button. This will send you to
[https://console.hasura.io](https://console.hasura.io) where you can accept it and then explore and contribute to the
project according your [role](#roles).

### Step 2. Explore the project

From your new project, you can explore the console by:

- [Running queries](/graphql-api/queries/) from the GraphiQL explorer.
- Visualizing the supergraph with the Explorer tab.
- Seeing other collaborators present in the project.

### Step 3. Learn how to develop locally

The owner of the project most likely has a Git repository with the project's contents available on a service such as
GitHub. To run the supergraph locally, and make contributions to the deployed supergraph,
[pick up here](/quickstart.mdx) in our getting started docs.

## Allow users to request access {#request-access}

You can adjust your project's settings to allow users to request access when navigating to your project's URL. To do
this, click the `Share` button in the top navigation of your project and select `Request Access`.

<Thumbnail
  src="/img/get-started/console_read-only.png"
  alt="Allow users to request access to your project"
  width="1000"
/>

Each time a user requests access, you'll be able to approve or deny the request from this modal.

## More information

See more about Hasura DDN plans and pricing [here](/reference/pricing.mdx).
