docs/project-configuration/project-management/service-accounts.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: Service Accounts
description: "Learn how to create and delete service accounts and regenerate access tokens for the same."
keywords:
  - service account
  - automation
  - continuous integration
  - continuous deployment
  - workflow
  - pipeline
  - hasura ddn
  - graphql api
  - collaborate
---

import Thumbnail from "@site/src/components/Thumbnail";

# Service Accounts

## Introduction

A service account represents an application, service, or automated process rather than a human user. These accounts are
employed for running background jobs, connecting systems, or performing specific operations without requiring manual
intervention.

Project owners or administrators can create and delete service accounts as needed. These accounts can act as
collaborators on other projects, just like regular users, and can hold roles such as supergraph admin or subgraph admin.

Additionally, project owners or administrators can regenerate service account tokens, making them a secure and ideal
alternative to Personal Access Tokens (PAT) for use in CI/CD workflows.

:::info Only available on DDN Base and higher

In order to create service accounts, your project must either be a
[DDN Base or DDN Advanced project](https://hasura.io/pricing/ddn).

:::

## How to create service account

### Step 1: Navigate to the Service Accounts section

As an owner or administrator on the project, open your project's console at
[https://console.hasura.io](https://console.hasura.io) and click `Settings` in the bottom-left corner. Then select
`Service Accounts` from the `Project Settings` menu and click `New Service Account`:

<Thumbnail
  src="/img/service-account/0.0.1_console_create_service_account.png"
  alt="Create a service account"
  width="1000"
/>

### Step 2: Enter details

Enter service account name and click `Continue`:

<Thumbnail
  src="/img/service-account/0.0.1_console_enter_service_account_name.png"
  alt="Create a service account"
  width="1000"
/>

### Step 3: Save service account token

After creating the service account, copy the service account token and store it securely. This token allows the CLI to
authenticate your service account You will not be able to view the token again after this step.

<Thumbnail
  src="/img/service-account/0.0.1_console_copy_service_account_token.png"
  alt="Create a service account"
  width="1000"
/>

### Step 4: Setup service account permissions

After saving the service account token, select the project and access level you want to grant to the service account,
and click `Give Access`:

<Thumbnail
  src="/img/service-account/0.0.1_console_setup_service_account_permissions.png"
  alt="Create a service account"
  width="1000"
/>

<br />
:::info Granular Access Only available on DDN Advanced

In order to add service account as a subgraph administrator, your project must be a
[DDN Advanced project](https://hasura.io/pricing/ddn).

:::

You can skip this step and assign permissions later by
[inviting the service account](/project-configuration/project-management/manage-collaborators.mdx) as a project
collaborator.

## How to use service account token

### Step 1. Login via CLI

```bash
ddn auth login --access-token <service-account-token>
```

### Step 2. Create and apply supergraph build

```bash
# Create supergraph build
ddn supergraph build create [flags]

# Apply supergraph build
ddn supergraph build apply <supergraph-build-version> [flags]
```

## How to regenerate service account token

Navigate to the `Service Accounts` section and click the `Regenerate` button next to the service account for which you
want to regenerate the token:

<Thumbnail
  src="/img/service-account/0.0.1_console_regenerate_service_account_token.png"
  alt="Create a service account"
  width="1000"
/>

## How to delete service account

### Step 1: Navigate to the Service Accounts section

Click the `Delete` button next to the service account you want to delete:

<Thumbnail
  src="/img/service-account/0.0.1_console_delete_service_account.png"
  alt="Create a service account"
  width="1000"
/>

### Step 2: Verify and confirm deletion

<Thumbnail
  src="/img/service-account/0.0.1_console_confirm_service_account_deletion.png"
  alt="Create a service account"
  width="1000"
/>

## More information

See more about Hasura DDN plans and pricing [here](/reference/pricing.mdx).

Commit message:

add a tip to let users know about new --apply flag

docs/project-configuration/project-management/service-accounts.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: Service Accounts
description: "Learn how to create and delete service accounts and regenerate access tokens for the same."
keywords:
  - service account
  - automation
  - continuous integration
  - continuous deployment
  - workflow
  - pipeline
  - hasura ddn
  - graphql api
  - collaborate
---

import Thumbnail from "@site/src/components/Thumbnail";

# Service Accounts

## Introduction

A service account represents an application, service, or automated process rather than a human user. These accounts are
employed for running background jobs, connecting systems, or performing specific operations without requiring manual
intervention.

Project owners or administrators can create and delete service accounts as needed. These accounts can act as
collaborators on other projects, just like regular users, and can hold roles such as supergraph admin or subgraph admin.

Additionally, project owners or administrators can regenerate service account tokens, making them a secure and ideal
alternative to Personal Access Tokens (PAT) for use in CI/CD workflows.

:::info Only available on DDN Base and higher

In order to create service accounts, your project must either be a
[DDN Base or DDN Advanced project](https://hasura.io/pricing/ddn).

:::

## How to create service account

### Step 1: Navigate to the Service Accounts section

As an owner or administrator on the project, open your project's console at
[https://console.hasura.io](https://console.hasura.io) and click `Settings` in the bottom-left corner. Then select
`Service Accounts` from the `Project Settings` menu and click `New Service Account`:

<Thumbnail
  src="/img/service-account/0.0.1_console_create_service_account.png"
  alt="Create a service account"
  width="1000"
/>

### Step 2: Enter details

Enter service account name and click `Continue`:

<Thumbnail
  src="/img/service-account/0.0.1_console_enter_service_account_name.png"
  alt="Create a service account"
  width="1000"
/>

### Step 3: Save service account token

After creating the service account, copy the service account token and store it securely. This token allows the CLI to
authenticate your service account You will not be able to view the token again after this step.

<Thumbnail
  src="/img/service-account/0.0.1_console_copy_service_account_token.png"
  alt="Create a service account"
  width="1000"
/>

### Step 4: Setup service account permissions

After saving the service account token, select the project and access level you want to grant to the service account,
and click `Give Access`:

<Thumbnail
  src="/img/service-account/0.0.1_console_setup_service_account_permissions.png"
  alt="Create a service account"
  width="1000"
/>

<br />
:::info Granular Access Only available on DDN Advanced

In order to add service account as a subgraph administrator, your project must be a
[DDN Advanced project](https://hasura.io/pricing/ddn).

:::

You can skip this step and assign permissions later by
[inviting the service account](/project-configuration/project-management/manage-collaborators.mdx) as a project
collaborator.

## How to use service account token

### Step 1. Login via CLI

```bash
ddn auth login --access-token <service-account-token>
```

### Step 2. Create and apply supergraph build

```bash
# Create supergraph build
ddn supergraph build create [flags]

# Apply supergraph build
ddn supergraph build apply <supergraph-build-version> [flags]
```

:::tip Streamline CI/CD workflows
For more efficient automation with service accounts, you can create and apply the supergraph build in a single command using
`ddn supergraph build create [flags] --apply`
:::

## How to regenerate service account token

Navigate to the `Service Accounts` section and click the `Regenerate` button next to the service account for which you
want to regenerate the token:

<Thumbnail
  src="/img/service-account/0.0.1_console_regenerate_service_account_token.png"
  alt="Create a service account"
  width="1000"
/>

## How to delete service account

### Step 1: Navigate to the Service Accounts section

Click the `Delete` button next to the service account you want to delete:

<Thumbnail
  src="/img/service-account/0.0.1_console_delete_service_account.png"
  alt="Create a service account"
  width="1000"
/>

### Step 2: Verify and confirm deletion

<Thumbnail
  src="/img/service-account/0.0.1_console_confirm_service_account_deletion.png"
  alt="Create a service account"
  width="1000"
/>

## More information

See more about Hasura DDN plans and pricing [here](/reference/pricing.mdx).
