docs/graphql-api/overview.mdx, before:

---
description:
  "Get details on how to handle and interact with your databases using Hasura's GraphQL API. Learn methods to initialize
  data connectors and manage queries effectively."
title: Queries Overview
sidebar_label: Overview
keywords:
  - hasura graphql api
  - data connectors
  - graphql queries
  - api tutorial
  - database management
  - query executions
  - api integrations
  - query filters
  - query sorting
  - hasura data connect
hide_table_of_contents: true
sidebar_position: 1
seoFrontMatterUpdated: true
---

import { OverviewTopSectionIconNoVideo } from "../../src/components/OverviewTopSectionIconNoVideo";
import { OverviewPlainCard } from "../../src/components/OverviewPlainCard";
import Icon from "@site/static/icons/graphql-logo.svg";

# GraphQL API

## Introduction

When you add a new data connector to Hasura, depending on the source and the abilities of the connector, you'll be able
to interact with your data or business logic easily with the power of GraphQL.

Documentation for data connectors can be found either in [the Connector Hub](https://hasura.io/connectors) or in the
repo of each connector itself. With the data connector documentation, you'll be able to find which of the GraphQL
queries documented in this section are available to you.

## Find out more

- [Queries](/graphql-api/queries/index.mdx)
- [Mutations](/graphql-api/mutations/index.mdx)
- [Subscriptions](/graphql-api/subscriptions/index.mdx)
- [Global IDs](/graphql-api/global-ids.mdx)
- [API Versioning](/graphql-api/versioning.mdx)
- [Apollo Federation](/graphql-api/apollo-federation.mdx)
- [Errors](/graphql-api/errors.mdx)
- [GraphQL Schema Diff](/graphql-api/graphql-schema-diff.mdx)

Commit message:

Docs: Update GraphQL API section (#822)

docs/graphql-api/overview.mdx, after:

---
description:
  "Get details on how to handle and interact with your databases using Hasura's GraphQL API. Learn methods to initialize
  data connectors and manage queries effectively."
title: Queries Overview
sidebar_label: Basics
keywords:
  - hasura graphql api
  - data connectors
  - graphql queries
  - api tutorial
  - database management
  - query executions
  - api integrations
  - query filters
  - query sorting
  - hasura data connect
sidebar_position: 1
seoFrontMatterUpdated: true
---

# Basics

## Introduction

When you connect a source to Hasura DDN using a
[data connector](/data-sources/overview.mdx#how-do-i-connect-my-data-to-hasura-ddn) and generate Hasura metadata to
represent its resources, the source becomes accessible through a unified GraphQL API. Your Hasura metadata lets you
control how the data is exposed and interacted with.

Every data connector supports querying and subscribing to data out-of-the-box. Some connectors also provide
auto-generated mutations for inserting, updating, or deleting data. For most connectors without auto-generated
mutations, you can define custom native mutations.

Queries, subscriptions, and mutations are exposed as root-level fields, enabling you to fetch, monitor, or modify data
directly through the GraphQL API.

:::tip Check out connector docs

For questions about the capabilities of individual connectors, check out their
[reference docs](/reference/connectors/index.mdx).

:::

The sections below explain how to interact with your data using the GraphQL API.

## Learn more

- [Queries](/graphql-api/queries/index.mdx)
- [Mutations](/graphql-api/mutations/index.mdx)
- [Subscriptions](/graphql-api/subscriptions/index.mdx)
- [Global IDs](/graphql-api/global-ids.mdx)
- [API Versioning](/graphql-api/versioning.mdx)
- [Apollo Federation](/graphql-api/apollo-federation.mdx)
- [Errors](/graphql-api/errors.mdx)
- [GraphQL Schema Diff](/graphql-api/graphql-schema-diff.mdx)
