docs/project-configuration/subgraphs/working-with-multiple-subgraphs.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: Work with multiple subgraphs
description: "Learn how to use contexts to switch between subgraphs for easy CLI management."
keywords:
  - hasura
  - hasura ddn
  - subgraphs
  - multiple subgraphs
  - subgraph relationship
  - CLI
  - context
---

# How to Work with Multiple Subgraphs

## Introduction

In your daily development, you'll often encounter scenarios where your project requires multiple subgraphs to represent
distinct domains. Whether you're working in a single repository or planning to split subgraphs across multiple
repositories for team independence, understanding how to manage multiple subgraphs is crucial.

We'll walk you through the best practices for working with multiple subgraphs, setting their context, managing
namespacing, and establishing relationships across them to create a unified supergraph.

## Subgraph Namespacing

Each subgraph in your project operates in its own namespace, which means internal metadata objects (like models,
relationships, and permissions) cannot conflict with other subgraphs. However, the GraphQL API is where all subgraphs
come together, and conflicts can occur with root field and type names.

To prevent naming conflicts, you can:

1. Use subgraph prefixing (recommended for multi-team setups)
2. Manually ensure unique names across subgraphs
3. Use explicit type names in your schema

For more information about prefixing, see the
[subgraph prefixing guide](/project-configuration/subgraphs/subgraph-prefixing.mdx).

## Set subgraph context

If you're working in a project with multiple subgraphs, there will be the need to switch between subgraphs when
executing commands with the DDN CLI. While the CLI supports a `--subgraph` flag, it is much more convenient to set your
subgraph in context.

```sh title="Switch between context using the path to the subgraph's configuration file:"
ddn context set subgraph ./<subgraph-name>/subgraph.yaml
```

```sh title="You can verify this by checking the current context:"
ddn context get subgraph
```

Which should return the path you entered. This will ensure any commands you run — such as adding a new data connector —
are run in the appropriate subgraph.

## Relationships across subgraphs

### Single-repo relationships

In a single-repo setup, relationships are straightforward to manage. All subgraphs are in the same repository and the
[Hasura VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=HasuraHQ.hasura) can be used to assist
with authoring relationships, providing auto-complete and validation.

### Cross-repo relationships {#cross-repo-relationships}

:::info Advanced plan

You will need a project on the [DDN Advanced plan](https://hasura.io/pricing) to use multi-repo federation and
cross-repo relationships.

:::

In a [multi-repo setup](/project-configuration/subgraphs/working-with-multiple-repositories.mdx), while working with an
independent subgraph in its own repository, you may want to relate objects that reside in different repositories, some
of which you may not have access to.

In these cases the Hasura VS Code extension cannot validate the entirety of the `Relationship` object and you will
manually author cross-repo relationships and ensure that the field mappings are correct. However, upon creating a
supergraph build, all cross-subgraph metadata is validated to prevent mistakes from being deployed to the final API.

You can still easily use the Hasura DDN console to explore the supergraph and test relationships across subgraphs once
you have created a build.

If you perform a _local_ supergraph build using the CLI (ie. `ddn supergraph build local`), cross-repo relationships
will be ignored and will not be validated. If you run the build locally you will only see the subgraphs in that
repository, and any relationships to subgraphs from other repositories will be missing.

### Example

Let's say you have a supergraph with two subgraphs, each managed in different repositories: `users` and `products`.

The `users` subgraph in repo 'A' has a `User` type with a field called `user_favorite_product_id`.

The `products` subgraph in repo 'B' has a `Product` type with a field called `id`.

To create a relationship between these two types in different repositories, you would create a `Relationship` object in
the `users` subgraph metadata as normal.

The LSP is able to understand that the `Product` type is in a different subgraph to which it does not have access and
will not give a warning on the foreign type.

```yaml
kind: Relationship
version: v1
definition:
  name: favorite_product
  sourceType: User
  target:
    model:
      name: Product
      subgraph: products
      relationshipType: Object
  mapping:
    - source:
        fieldPath:
          - fieldName: user_favorite_product_id
      target:
        modelField:
          - fieldName: id
```

This `Relationship` object defines a relationship called `favorite_product` from the `User` type to the `Product` type.
The `mapping` field specifies how the `user_favorite_product_id` field in the `User` type maps to the `id` field in the
`Product` type.

After defining the cross-repo relationship, it's important to note that you won't be able to test this locally. To see
the relationship in action, you'll need to follow these steps:

1. Create a new supergraph build on DDN using the `ddn supergraph build create` command. (Subgraph builds do not get an
   API, so supergraph builds are required to test.)
2. You can then use the Hasura DDN console to explore and test the relationship across subgraphs.
3. If you have admin permissions, you can apply the subgraph to the supergraph with the `ddn subgraph apply` command.

Remember, cross-repo relationships only come into effect when the subgraphs are combined in the DDN environment. Local
development and testing are limited to the scope of your current repository.

With this relationship defined, you can now query the `favorite_product` field on the `User` type to retrieve the
related `Product`.

```graphql
query {
  users {
    id
    name
    favorite_product {
      id
      name
    }
  }
}
```

## Next steps

- [Learn how to split subgraphs across repositories](/project-configuration/subgraphs/working-with-multiple-repositories.mdx)

:::info Multi-Repository Development

For larger teams, you can split subgraphs across multiple repositories to enable independent development lifecycles.
This advanced feature requires the DDN Advanced plan. Learn more in our guide about
[splitting subgraphs across repositories](/project-configuration/subgraphs/working-with-multiple-repositories.mdx).

:::

Commit message:

Docs: Add HML example for cross-subgraph relationships
Adds a cross-subgraph HML example.

docs/project-configuration/subgraphs/working-with-multiple-subgraphs.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: Work with multiple subgraphs
description: "Learn how to use contexts to switch between subgraphs for easy CLI management."
keywords:
  - hasura
  - hasura ddn
  - subgraphs
  - multiple subgraphs
  - subgraph relationship
  - CLI
  - context
---

# How to Work with Multiple Subgraphs

## Introduction

In your daily development, you'll often encounter scenarios where your project requires multiple subgraphs to represent
distinct domains. Whether you're working in a single repository or planning to split subgraphs across multiple
repositories for team independence, understanding how to manage multiple subgraphs is crucial.

We'll walk you through the best practices for working with multiple subgraphs, setting their context, managing
namespacing, and establishing relationships across them to create a unified supergraph.

## Subgraph Namespacing

Each subgraph in your project operates in its own namespace, which means internal metadata objects (like models,
relationships, and permissions) cannot conflict with other subgraphs. However, the GraphQL API is where all subgraphs
come together, and conflicts can occur with root field and type names.

To prevent naming conflicts, you can:

1. Use subgraph prefixing (recommended for multi-team setups)
2. Manually ensure unique names across subgraphs
3. Use explicit type names in your schema

For more information about prefixing, see the
[subgraph prefixing guide](/project-configuration/subgraphs/subgraph-prefixing.mdx).

## Set subgraph context

If you're working in a project with multiple subgraphs, there will be the need to switch between subgraphs when
executing commands with the DDN CLI. While the CLI supports a `--subgraph` flag, it is much more convenient to set your
subgraph in context.

```sh title="Switch between context using the path to the subgraph's configuration file:"
ddn context set subgraph ./<subgraph-name>/subgraph.yaml
```

```sh title="You can verify this by checking the current context:"
ddn context get subgraph
```

Which should return the path you entered. This will ensure any commands you run — such as adding a new data connector —
are run in the appropriate subgraph.

## Relationships across subgraphs

Relationships across subgraphs work in nearly the exact same way as relationships within a single subgraph; the only
caveat is to add the `subgraph` name of the target type.

```yaml title="In the example below, we're creating a simple relationship between models, with the target model belonging to the billing subgraph:" {8}
kind: Relationship
version: v1
definition:
  name: orders
  sourceType: Users
  target:
    model:
      subgraph: billing
      name: Orders
      relationshipType: Array
  mapping:
    - source:
        fieldPath:
          - fieldName: id
      target:
        modelField:
          - fieldName: userId
```

### Single-repo relationships

In a single-repo setup, relationships are straightforward to manage. All subgraphs are in the same repository and the
[Hasura VS Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=HasuraHQ.hasura) can be used to assist
with authoring relationships, providing auto-complete and validation.

### Cross-repo relationships {#cross-repo-relationships}

:::info Advanced plan

You will need a project on the [DDN Advanced plan](https://hasura.io/pricing) to use multi-repo federation and
cross-repo relationships.

:::

In a [multi-repo setup](/project-configuration/subgraphs/working-with-multiple-repositories.mdx), while working with an
independent subgraph in its own repository, you may want to relate objects that reside in different repositories, some
of which you may not have access to.

In these cases the Hasura VS Code extension cannot validate the entirety of the `Relationship` object and you will
manually author cross-repo relationships and ensure that the field mappings are correct. However, upon creating a
supergraph build, all cross-subgraph metadata is validated to prevent mistakes from being deployed to the final API.

You can still easily use the Hasura DDN console to explore the supergraph and test relationships across subgraphs once
you have created a build.

If you perform a _local_ supergraph build using the CLI (ie. `ddn supergraph build local`), cross-repo relationships
will be ignored and will not be validated. If you run the build locally you will only see the subgraphs in that
repository, and any relationships to subgraphs from other repositories will be missing.

### Example

Let's say you have a supergraph with two subgraphs, each managed in different repositories: `users` and `products`.

The `users` subgraph in repo 'A' has a `User` type with a field called `user_favorite_product_id`.

The `products` subgraph in repo 'B' has a `Product` type with a field called `id`.

To create a relationship between these two types in different repositories, you would create a `Relationship` object in
the `users` subgraph metadata as normal.

The LSP is able to understand that the `Product` type is in a different subgraph to which it does not have access and
will not give a warning on the foreign type.

```yaml
kind: Relationship
version: v1
definition:
  name: favorite_product
  sourceType: User
  target:
    model:
      name: Product
      subgraph: products
      relationshipType: Object
  mapping:
    - source:
        fieldPath:
          - fieldName: user_favorite_product_id
      target:
        modelField:
          - fieldName: id
```

This `Relationship` object defines a relationship called `favorite_product` from the `User` type to the `Product` type.
The `mapping` field specifies how the `user_favorite_product_id` field in the `User` type maps to the `id` field in the
`Product` type.

After defining the cross-repo relationship, it's important to note that you won't be able to test this locally. To see
the relationship in action, you'll need to follow these steps:

1. Create a new supergraph build on DDN using the `ddn supergraph build create` command. (Subgraph builds do not get an
   API, so supergraph builds are required to test.)
2. You can then use the Hasura DDN console to explore and test the relationship across subgraphs.
3. If you have admin permissions, you can apply the subgraph to the supergraph with the `ddn subgraph apply` command.

Remember, cross-repo relationships only come into effect when the subgraphs are combined in the DDN environment. Local
development and testing are limited to the scope of your current repository.

With this relationship defined, you can now query the `favorite_product` field on the `User` type to retrieve the
related `Product`.

```graphql
query {
  users {
    id
    name
    favorite_product {
      id
      name
    }
  }
}
```

## Next steps

- [Learn how to split subgraphs across repositories](/project-configuration/subgraphs/working-with-multiple-repositories.mdx)

:::info Multi-Repository Development

For larger teams, you can split subgraphs across multiple repositories to enable independent development lifecycles.
This advanced feature requires the DDN Advanced plan. Learn more in our guide about
[splitting subgraphs across repositories](/project-configuration/subgraphs/working-with-multiple-repositories.mdx).

:::
