docs/project-configuration/subgraphs/working-with-multiple-repositories.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: Split Subgraphs across repositories
description: "Learn how to split subgraphs across multiple repositories."
keywords:
  - hasura
  - hasura ddn
  - subgraphs
  - multiple subgraphs
  - parent repo
  - multiple repositories
  - mutli-repo
  - ddn advanced
  - advanced
  - CLI
  - context
---

import Roles from "@site/docs/project-configuration/_roles.mdx";
import Permissions from "@site/docs/project-configuration/_permissions.mdx";

# How to Split Subgraphs across Repositories

## Introduction

For larger teams and larger projects, it can make sense to split your subgraphs into multiple repositories contributing
to the supergraph in the "parent" project. This approach enables teams to have independent software development
lifecycles (SDLC) and CI/CD pipelines, providing better governance and control over their specific domains.

In this setup, one or more subgraphs are defined in each repository and depending on the role of the user on the cloud
project, can be built and applied to the supergraph independently. Each subgraph typically represents a distinct data
domain (e.g., users, orders, products) and can be managed by different teams.

:::tip Key Concepts

- Supergraph and subgraph builds are immutable and have unique IDs
- A subgraph must exist in the DDN project before inviting collaborators to it
- Each subgraph is namespaced and internal metadata objects cannot conflict with other subgraphs
- The GraphQL API is where subgraphs meet and conflicts can occur with root field and type names
- [Subgraph prefixing](/project-configuration/subgraphs/subgraph-prefixing.mdx) can automatically remedy naming
  conflicts

:::

Deployment with a multi-repository setup is effectively the same as
[deploying from a single repository](/deployment/hasura-ddn/index.mdx), but with the considerations of managing your
context to reference the shared project, and also being aware of the differences in abilities of the users building and
deploying.

See the tables [below](#invite-collaborators) for the roles and permissions of users on a Hasura DDN project.

:::warning DDN Advanced Plan required

In order to utilize multi-repository collaboration, you must have an active
[DDN Advanced Plan](https://hasura.io/pricing).

:::

## How it works

### Parent Project:

The project `Owner` or `Admin` will need to:

1. Initialize a new local parent project
2. Initialize the corresponding cloud parent project
3. Initialize git for the parent project
4. Provision subgraphs on the cloud parent project
5. Create a base build of the cloud parent project
6. Invite collaborators to the cloud parent project

### Independent Subgraphs:

The invited user will need to:

1. Create a new supergraph with a new subgraph and initialize a new repository
2. Initialize their cloud project as the parent project and link the new subgraph
3. Set the subgraph context
4. Create a subgraph build
5. Integrate the subgraph build into the parent project
6. Apply the build to be the official supergraph API (`Owner`, `Admin`, `Subgraph Admin` roles)

## Create the Initial Parent Project

Begin by creating a "parent" project that will serve as the coordinated supergraph for your independent subgraph
repositories. This central project will manage provisioning subgraphs, inviting collaborators, and maintaining the
overall API.

### Step 1. Initialize a new local project

This will serve as the parent project.

```sh
ddn supergraph init <parent-project> && cd <parent-project> && git init
```

This will scaffold the local configuration for your DDN project and initialize a Git repository.

### Step 2. Initialize the cloud project

This is based on the local parent project.

```sh
ddn project init
```

In your configuration file (e.g., `.hasura/context.yaml`), you'll see a new `project` entry with the name of the project
returned by the CLI.

### Step 3. Create an initial commit

```sh
git add . && git commit -m "Initial commit"
```

Push this repository to your preferred hosting service to share it with collaborators.

### Step 4. Provision subgraphs on the cloud parent project

If you know the subgraphs to include, you can provision them using the DDN CLI. Replace `<subgraph-name>` with the
desired name:

```sh
ddn project subgraph create <subgraph-name>
```

You are also able to add a subgraph on the console in the `Share > Invite a user > Granular access` section.

:::info On-Demand Subgraphs

Subgraphs can be added as needed when collaborators are onboarded.

:::

### Step 5. Create a base build of the cloud parent project

```sh
ddn supergraph build create
```

This initial build serves as the foundation for future subgraph builds.

### Step 6. Invite collaborators to the cloud parent project {#invite-collaborators}

Navigate to your project's console and invite collaborators based on their roles:

<Roles />

The following are the detailed permissions for the above roles:

<Permissions />

Each collaborator will receive an invitation to join the project and can proceed to add their subgraphs.

## Independent Subgraphs

Each independent subgraph contributing to the parent project resides in its own separate repository and has it's own
local supergraph. The repository could be an existing or newly initialized one.

### Step 1. Create a new supergraph with a new subgraph and initialize a repository

The invited user will need to create a new supergraph on their machine with a new subgraph and initialize a repository.

They will use the same name for the subgraph as was created in the parent project.

```sh
ddn supergraph init <subgraph-name-as-supergraph-name> --create-subgraph <subgraph-name> && cd <subgraph-name> && git init
```

This scaffolds the necessary structure and initializes a Git repository.

### Step 2. Initialize the cloud project as the parent project and link the new subgraph

This will initialize the cloud project as the parent project.

```sh
ddn project init --with-project <parent-project-name>
```

Your configuration file will now link the local subgraph to the parent project.

:::info Local Development

You can add data sources and develop locally at this point. Check out relevant tutorials for adding sources.

:::

### Step 3. Set the subgraph context

```sh
ddn context set subgraph ./<subgraph-name>/subgraph.yaml
```

This sets the subgraph as the default for future CLI commands.

### Step 4. Create a subgraph build

```sh
ddn subgraph build create
```

The CLI returns a build version for later integration into the parent supergraph.

### Step 5. Integrate the subgraph build into the parent project

```sh
ddn supergraph build get
```

Use the latest build version from the parent supergraph and the subgraph build version in the following command:

```sh
ddn supergraph build create --subgraph-version <subgraph-name:build-version> --base-supergraph-version <parent-build-id>
```

This integrates the subgraph changes into an existing build of the parent supergraph.

### Step 6. Apply the build

```sh
ddn supergraph build apply <supergraph-build-version>
```

This finalizes the integration, making the changes available to all collaborators. This command is only available to
`Owner` and `Admin` roles. A `Subgraph Admin` can run:

```sh title="Apply a single subgraph. Unavailable for Subgraph Developer role"
ddn subgraph build apply <subgraph-build-version>
```

## Build Summary

### Supergraph and all subgraphs

Even though all subgraphs are not in the same repo, the `ddn supergraph build create` command will build the supergraph
including all subgraphs which are on DDN cloud.

Once your [context is set to the shared project](/project-configuration/project-management/manage-environments.mdx), an
`Owner` or an `Admin` role can build and apply the supergraph including all subgraphs.

As always, `ddn supergraph build apply <supergraph-build-version>` will make it the active supergraph API.

`Subgraph Admin` and `Subgraph Developer` cannot build or apply supergraphs.

### Supergraph and specific subgraphs

An `Owner` or an `Admin` role can build and apply new supergraph and specify subgraphs to be built and applied.

You can also list the available builds of subgraphs to use with:

```bash
ddn subgraph build get
```

```bash title="Build a supergraph based on a specific build and with mutiple specific subgraphs"
ddn supergraph build create --subgraph-version <subgraph_name:subgraph_version> --subgraph-version <subgraph_name:subgraph_version>  --base-supergraph-version <supergraph_version>
```

See more about incremental builds [here](/deployment/hasura-ddn/incremental-builds.mdx).

### A single subgraph

An `Owner`, `Admin`, `Subgraph Admin` and `Subgraph Developer` role can build a single subgraph. All except
`Subgraph Developer` can apply a single subgraph.

```bash title="Build a single subgraph"
ddn subgraph build create --subgraph-version <subgraph_name:subgraph_version> --base-supergraph-version <supergraph_version>
```

```bash title="Apply a single subgraph. Unavailable for Subgraph Developer role"
ddn subgraph build apply --subgraph-version <subgraph_name:subgraph_version>
```

## Merging Existing Projects

If you have two independently developed projects on Hasura DDN that you want to merge into a single project with
independent subgraph development, follow these steps:

1. Choose which project will be the main project and which will be the subgraph project
2. In the main project, create a new subgraph placeholder:

```sh
ddn project subgraph create <subgraph-name>
```

3. Invite the subgraph project collaborators with appropriate permissions
4. Once collaborators accept the invitation, they should set their project context:

```sh
ddn context set project <main-project-name>
```

5. Set up subgraph prefixes if needed to prevent naming conflicts
6. Create a subgraph build on the main project:

```sh
ddn subgraph build create
```

7. The main project owner/admin can then apply the subgraph build:

```sh
ddn subgraph build apply <subgraph-build-version>
```

## Next steps

- [Follow an end-to-end tutorial](/project-configuration/tutorials/work-with-multiple-repositories.mdx)

Commit message:

[DX-881] Add `--apply` flag documentation to streamline supergraph build and apply process (#943)

docs/project-configuration/subgraphs/working-with-multiple-repositories.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: Split Subgraphs across repositories
description: "Learn how to split subgraphs across multiple repositories."
keywords:
  - hasura
  - hasura ddn
  - subgraphs
  - multiple subgraphs
  - parent repo
  - multiple repositories
  - mutli-repo
  - ddn advanced
  - advanced
  - CLI
  - context
---

import Roles from "@site/docs/project-configuration/_roles.mdx";
import Permissions from "@site/docs/project-configuration/_permissions.mdx";

# How to Split Subgraphs across Repositories

## Introduction

For larger teams and larger projects, it can make sense to split your subgraphs into multiple repositories contributing
to the supergraph in the "parent" project. This approach enables teams to have independent software development
lifecycles (SDLC) and CI/CD pipelines, providing better governance and control over their specific domains.

In this setup, one or more subgraphs are defined in each repository and depending on the role of the user on the cloud
project, can be built and applied to the supergraph independently. Each subgraph typically represents a distinct data
domain (e.g., users, orders, products) and can be managed by different teams.

:::tip Key Concepts

- Supergraph and subgraph builds are immutable and have unique IDs
- A subgraph must exist in the DDN project before inviting collaborators to it
- Each subgraph is namespaced and internal metadata objects cannot conflict with other subgraphs
- The GraphQL API is where subgraphs meet and conflicts can occur with root field and type names
- [Subgraph prefixing](/project-configuration/subgraphs/subgraph-prefixing.mdx) can automatically remedy naming
  conflicts

:::

Deployment with a multi-repository setup is effectively the same as
[deploying from a single repository](/deployment/hasura-ddn/index.mdx), but with the considerations of managing your
context to reference the shared project, and also being aware of the differences in abilities of the users building and
deploying.

See the tables [below](#invite-collaborators) for the roles and permissions of users on a Hasura DDN project.

:::warning DDN Advanced Plan required

In order to utilize multi-repository collaboration, you must have an active
[DDN Advanced Plan](https://hasura.io/pricing).

:::

## How it works

### Parent Project:

The project `Owner` or `Admin` will need to:

1. Initialize a new local parent project
2. Initialize the corresponding cloud parent project
3. Initialize git for the parent project
4. Provision subgraphs on the cloud parent project
5. Create a base build of the cloud parent project
6. Invite collaborators to the cloud parent project

### Independent Subgraphs:

The invited user will need to:

1. Create a new supergraph with a new subgraph and initialize a new repository
2. Initialize their cloud project as the parent project and link the new subgraph
3. Set the subgraph context
4. Create a subgraph build
5. Integrate the subgraph build into the parent project
6. Apply the build to be the official supergraph API (`Owner`, `Admin`, `Subgraph Admin` roles)

## Create the Initial Parent Project

Begin by creating a "parent" project that will serve as the coordinated supergraph for your independent subgraph
repositories. This central project will manage provisioning subgraphs, inviting collaborators, and maintaining the
overall API.

### Step 1. Initialize a new local project

This will serve as the parent project.

```sh
ddn supergraph init <parent-project> && cd <parent-project> && git init
```

This will scaffold the local configuration for your DDN project and initialize a Git repository.

### Step 2. Initialize the cloud project

This is based on the local parent project.

```sh
ddn project init
```

In your configuration file (e.g., `.hasura/context.yaml`), you'll see a new `project` entry with the name of the project
returned by the CLI.

### Step 3. Create an initial commit

```sh
git add . && git commit -m "Initial commit"
```

Push this repository to your preferred hosting service to share it with collaborators.

### Step 4. Provision subgraphs on the cloud parent project

If you know the subgraphs to include, you can provision them using the DDN CLI. Replace `<subgraph-name>` with the
desired name:

```sh
ddn project subgraph create <subgraph-name>
```

You are also able to add a subgraph on the console in the `Share > Invite a user > Granular access` section.

:::info On-Demand Subgraphs

Subgraphs can be added as needed when collaborators are onboarded.

:::

### Step 5. Create a base build of the cloud parent project

```sh
ddn supergraph build create
```

This initial build serves as the foundation for future subgraph builds.

### Step 6. Invite collaborators to the cloud parent project {#invite-collaborators}

Navigate to your project's console and invite collaborators based on their roles:

<Roles />

The following are the detailed permissions for the above roles:

<Permissions />

Each collaborator will receive an invitation to join the project and can proceed to add their subgraphs.

## Independent Subgraphs

Each independent subgraph contributing to the parent project resides in its own separate repository and has it's own
local supergraph. The repository could be an existing or newly initialized one.

### Step 1. Create a new supergraph with a new subgraph and initialize a repository

The invited user will need to create a new supergraph on their machine with a new subgraph and initialize a repository.

They will use the same name for the subgraph as was created in the parent project.

```sh
ddn supergraph init <subgraph-name-as-supergraph-name> --create-subgraph <subgraph-name> && cd <subgraph-name> && git init
```

This scaffolds the necessary structure and initializes a Git repository.

### Step 2. Initialize the cloud project as the parent project and link the new subgraph

This will initialize the cloud project as the parent project.

```sh
ddn project init --with-project <parent-project-name>
```

Your configuration file will now link the local subgraph to the parent project.

:::info Local Development

You can add data sources and develop locally at this point. Check out relevant tutorials for adding sources.

:::

### Step 3. Set the subgraph context

```sh
ddn context set subgraph ./<subgraph-name>/subgraph.yaml
```

This sets the subgraph as the default for future CLI commands.

### Step 4. Create a subgraph build

```sh
ddn subgraph build create
```

The CLI returns a build version for later integration into the parent supergraph.

### Step 5. Integrate the subgraph build into the parent project

```sh
ddn supergraph build get
```

Use the latest build version from the parent supergraph and the subgraph build version in the following command:

```sh
ddn supergraph build create --subgraph-version <subgraph-name:build-version> --base-supergraph-version <parent-build-id>
```

This integrates the subgraph changes into an existing build of the parent supergraph.

### Step 6. Apply the build

```sh
ddn supergraph build apply <supergraph-build-version>
```

This finalizes the integration, making the changes available to all collaborators. This command is only available to
`Owner` and `Admin` roles. A `Subgraph Admin` can run:

```sh title="Apply a single subgraph. Unavailable for Subgraph Developer role"
ddn subgraph build apply <subgraph-build-version>
```

:::tip Simplify multi-team workflows
For more efficient collaboration across repositories, you can create and apply the supergraph build in a single command using
`ddn supergraph build create --subgraph-version <subgraph-name:build-version> --base-supergraph-version <parent-build-id> --apply`
:::

## Build Summary

### Supergraph and all subgraphs

Even though all subgraphs are not in the same repo, the `ddn supergraph build create` command will build the supergraph
including all subgraphs which are on DDN cloud.

Once your [context is set to the shared project](/project-configuration/project-management/manage-environments.mdx), an
`Owner` or an `Admin` role can build and apply the supergraph including all subgraphs.

As always, `ddn supergraph build apply <supergraph-build-version>` will make it the active supergraph API.

`Subgraph Admin` and `Subgraph Developer` cannot build or apply supergraphs.

### Supergraph and specific subgraphs

An `Owner` or an `Admin` role can build and apply new supergraph and specify subgraphs to be built and applied.

You can also list the available builds of subgraphs to use with:

```bash
ddn subgraph build get
```

```bash title="Build a supergraph based on a specific build and with mutiple specific subgraphs"
ddn supergraph build create --subgraph-version <subgraph_name:subgraph_version> --subgraph-version <subgraph_name:subgraph_version>  --base-supergraph-version <supergraph_version>
```

See more about incremental builds [here](/deployment/hasura-ddn/incremental-builds.mdx).

### A single subgraph

An `Owner`, `Admin`, `Subgraph Admin` and `Subgraph Developer` role can build a single subgraph. All except
`Subgraph Developer` can apply a single subgraph.

```bash title="Build a single subgraph"
ddn subgraph build create --subgraph-version <subgraph_name:subgraph_version> --base-supergraph-version <supergraph_version>
```

```bash title="Apply a single subgraph. Unavailable for Subgraph Developer role"
ddn subgraph build apply --subgraph-version <subgraph_name:subgraph_version>
```

## Merging Existing Projects

If you have two independently developed projects on Hasura DDN that you want to merge into a single project with
independent subgraph development, follow these steps:

1. Choose which project will be the main project and which will be the subgraph project
2. In the main project, create a new subgraph placeholder:

```sh
ddn project subgraph create <subgraph-name>
```

3. Invite the subgraph project collaborators with appropriate permissions
4. Once collaborators accept the invitation, they should set their project context:

```sh
ddn context set project <main-project-name>
```

5. Set up subgraph prefixes if needed to prevent naming conflicts
6. Create a subgraph build on the main project:

```sh
ddn subgraph build create
```

7. The main project owner/admin can then apply the subgraph build:

```sh
ddn subgraph build apply <subgraph-build-version>
```

## Next steps

- [Follow an end-to-end tutorial](/project-configuration/tutorials/work-with-multiple-repositories.mdx)
