docs/graphql-api/mutations/index.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Mutations
sidebar_position: 0
description:
  "In-depth guide to conducting GraphQL Queries and harnessing the full potential of Hasura's GraphQL API. Discover
  functionalities like simple queries, nesting, sorting, pagination, and employing multiple arguments or queries. Learn
  more about filtering queries and the use of variables, aliases, fragments, and directives."
keywords:
  - graphql mutations
  - hasura graphql api
  - api mutations
---

# Basics of Mutations

## Introduction

GraphQL mutations are used to **modify data** by invoking [commands](/supergraph-modeling/commands.mdx) in your Hasura
DDN project. Mutations allow you to insert, update, or delete records while maintaining control over what data is
affected and returned.

Mutations can perform inserts to add new records, specifying values for each field in the command. You can also update
existing records by applying changes to fields that match certain conditions. Similarly, you can delete records that
meet specific criteria, ensuring precise control over which data is removed.

Just like queries, mutations allow you to specify fields in the response. This means you can retrieve the affected data
after a mutation, such as returning the new or updated values of fields in the records you modified.

Since the GraphQL API is self-documenting, you can write mutations manually or use tools like auto-completion and the
GraphiQL explorer in the Hasura DDN console to help you build and test them. GraphiQL shows the available mutation
types, fields, and input arguments, making it easier to construct and validate mutations.

## Configuration

You can configure the overall usage of mutations in your GraphQL API using
[the `GraphQlConfig` object](/supergraph-modeling/graphql-config.mdx#graphqlconfig-mutationgraphqlconfig) in your
metadata. Additionally, you can customize individual mutations by modifying
[the `Command` metadata object](/supergraph-modeling/commands.mdx) representing it.

## Next steps

Currently, you can perform mutations via the GraphQL API using the following methods:

- Some data connectors support mutations out-of-the-box and — when
  [adding `commands`](/cli/commands/ddn_command_add.mdx) will generate them automatically.
- Some data connectors support authoring native mutations — such as with the
  [MongoDB connector](/reference/connectors/mongodb/native-operations/native-mutations.mdx) — to enable you to write
  custom logic for inserts, updates, and deletes.
- You can mutate data via any lambda connector using the Command Query Separation (CQS) pattern. Learn more
  [here](/business-logic/typescript.mdx).

:::info Not sure what your connector supports?

For questions about feature support, check out the [connector reference docs](/reference/connectors/index.mdx).

:::

Commit message:

Update frontmatter and make final adjustments
Updates frontmatter to include descriptions for all new pages and modifies some existing ones slightly.

Additionally, I tweaked a few of the page's for consistency; priamrily, this fell on the index routes
for queries, mutations, and subscriptions.

docs/graphql-api/mutations/index.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Mutations
sidebar_position: 0
description:
  "In-depth guide to conducting GraphQL Queries and harnessing the full potential of Hasura's GraphQL API. Discover
  functionalities like simple queries, nesting, sorting, pagination, and employing multiple arguments or queries. Learn
  more about filtering queries and the use of variables, aliases, fragments, and directives."
keywords:
  - graphql mutations
  - hasura graphql api
  - api mutations
---

# Basics of Mutations

## Introduction

GraphQL mutations are used to **modify data** by invoking [commands](/supergraph-modeling/commands.mdx) in your Hasura
DDN project. Mutations allow you to insert, update, or delete records while maintaining control over what data is
affected and returned.

Mutations can perform inserts to add new records, specifying values for each field in the command. You can also update
existing records by applying changes to fields that match certain conditions. Similarly, you can delete records that
meet specific criteria, ensuring precise control over which data is removed.

Just like queries, mutations allow you to specify fields in the response. This means you can retrieve the affected data
after a mutation, such as returning the new or updated values of fields in the records you modified.

Since the GraphQL API is self-documenting, you can write mutations manually or use tools like auto-completion and the
GraphiQL explorer in the Hasura DDN console to help you build and test them. GraphiQL shows the available mutation
types, fields, and input arguments, making it easier to construct and validate mutations.

## Configuration

Currently, you can perform mutations via the GraphQL API using the following methods:

- Some data connectors support mutations out-of-the-box and — when
  [adding `commands`](/cli/commands/ddn_command_add.mdx) — will generate them automatically.
- Some data connectors support authoring native mutations — such as with the
  [MongoDB connector](/reference/connectors/mongodb/native-operations/native-mutations.mdx) — to enable you to write
  custom logic for inserts, updates, and deletes.
- You can mutate data via any lambda connector using the Command Query Separation (CQS) pattern. Learn more
  [here](/business-logic/typescript.mdx).

:::info Not sure what your connector supports?

For questions about feature support, check out the [connector reference docs](/reference/connectors/index.mdx).

:::

You can configure the overall usage of mutations in your GraphQL API using
[the `GraphQlConfig` object](/supergraph-modeling/graphql-config.mdx#graphqlconfig-mutationgraphqlconfig) in your
metadata. Additionally, you can customize individual mutations by modifying
[the `GraphQlDefinition` metadata object](/supergraph-modeling/commands.mdx#command-commandgraphqldefinition) for a
command.

## Learn more

- [Insert data](/graphql-api/mutations/insert-data.mdx)
- [Update data](/graphql-api/mutations/update-data.mdx)
- [Delete data](/graphql-api/mutations/delete-data.mdx)
