docs/graphql-api/queries/filters/comparison-operators.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Filter by comparing values
sidebar_position: 1
description:
  "This documentation page provides a comprehensive overview on how to use comparison operators, such as equality and
  varying degrees of greater or less than operators, to filter and refine your Hasura API data queries. Topical examples
  are included for a variety of data types, including integers, strings, and booleans."
keywords:
  - hasura
  - data filtering
  - comparison operators
  - graphql queries
  - api data
  - hasura ddn
  - equality operators
  - comparison filtering
  - graphql api
  - data querying
seoFrontMatterUpdated: true
---

import GraphiQLIDE from "@site/src/components/GraphiQLIDE";

# Filter by Comparing Values

## Introduction

Comparison operators are used to compare values of the same type. For example, to compare two numbers, two strings, two
dates, etc.

## Equality operators (\_eq, \_neq)

The `_eq` (equal to) or the `_neq` (not equal to) operators are compatible with any type other than `json` or `jsonB`
(like `Integer`, `Float`, `Double`, `Text`, `Boolean`, `Date`/`Time`/`Timestamp`, etc.).

[//]: # '[//]: # "For more details on equality operators and PostgreSQL equivalents, refer to the"'
[//]: # '[//]: # "[API reference](/api-reference/graphql-api/query.mdx#generic-operators)."'

The following are examples of using the equality operators on different types.

**Example: Integer (works with Double, Float, Numeric, etc.)**

Fetch data about an author whose `id` _(an integer field)_ is equal to 3:

<GraphiQLIDE
  query={`query AuthorById {
  authors(
    where: {id: {_eq: 3}}
  ) {
    id
    name
  }
}`}
  response={`{
  "data": {
    "authors": [
      {
        "id": 3,
        "name": "Sidney"
      }
    ]
  }
}`}
/>

**Example: String or Text**

Fetch a list of authors with `name` _(a text field)_ as "Sidney":

<GraphiQLIDE
  query={`query AuthorByName {
  authors(
    where: {name: {_eq: "Sidney"}}
  ) {
    id
    name
  }
}`}
  response={`{
  "data": {
    "authors": [
      {
        "id": 3,
        "name": "Sidney"
      }
    ]
  }
}`}
/>

**Example: Boolean**

Fetch a list of articles that have not been published (`is_published` is a boolean field):

<GraphiQLIDE
  query={`query UnpublishedArticles {
  articles(
    where: {is_published: {_eq: false}}
  ) {
    id
    title
    is_published
  }
}`}
  response={`{
  "data": {
    "articles": [
      {
        "id": 5,
        "title": "ut blandit",
        "is_published": false
      },
      {
        "id": 8,
        "title": "donec semper sapien",
        "is_published": false
      },
      {
        "id": 10,
        "title": "dui proin leo",
        "is_published": false
      },
      {
        "id": 14,
        "title": "congue etiam justo",
        "is_published": false
      }
    ]
  }
}`}
/>

**Example: Date (works with Time, Timezone, etc.)**

Fetch a list of articles that were published on a certain date (`published_on` is a Date field):

<GraphiQLIDE
  query={`query ArticlesByDate {
  articles(
    where: {published_on: {_eq: "2017-05-26"}}
  ) {
    id
    title
    published_on
  }
}`}
  response={`{
  "data": {
    "articles": [
      {
        "id": 3,
        "title": "amet justo morbi",
        "published_on": "2017-05-26"
      }
    ]
  }
}`}
/>

**Example: Integer (works with Integer, Float, Double, etc.)**

Fetch a list of users whose age is _not_ 30 (`age` is an Integer field):

<GraphiQLIDE
  query={`query UsersNotAge30 {
  users(where: { age: { _neq: 30 } }) {
    id
    name
    age
  }
}`}
  response={`{
  "data": {
    "users": [
      {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "John",
        "age": 20
      },
      {
        "id": 2,
        "name": "Jane",
        "age": 25
      },
      {
        "id": 4,
        "name": "Bob",
        "age": 40
      }
    ]
  }`}
/>

:::info Caveat for "null" values

By design, the `_eq` or `_neq` operators will not return rows with `null` values.

To also return rows with `null` values, the `_is_null` operator needs to be used along with these joined by the `_or`
operator.

For example, to fetch a list of articles where the `is_published` column is either `false` or `null`:

<GraphiQLIDE
  query={`query UnpublishedArticles {
  articles (
    where: {
      _or: [
        {is_published: {_eq: false}},
        {is_published: {_is_null: true}}
      ]
    }
  )
  {
    id
    title
    is_published
  }
}`}
  response={`{
  "data": {
    "articles": [
      {
        "id": 1,
        "title": "Robben Island",
        "is_published": false
      },
      {
        "id": 2,
        "title": "The Life of Matthias",
        "is_published": false
      },
      {
        "id": 3,
        "title": "All about Hasura",
        "is_published": null
      },
    ]
  }
}`}
/>

:::

## Greater than or less than operators (\_gt, \_lt, \_gte, \_lte)

The `_gt` (greater than), `_lt` (less than), `_gte` (greater than or equal to), `_lte` (less than or equal to) operators
are compatible with any type other than `json` or `jsonB` (like `Integer`, `Float`, `Double`, `Text`, `Boolean`,
`Date`/`Time`/`Timestamp`, etc.).

[//]: # '[//]: # "For more details on greater than or less than operators and PostgreSQL equivalents, refer to the"'
[//]: # '[//]: # "[API reference](/api-reference/graphql-api/query.mdx#generic-operators)."'

The following are examples of using these operators on different types:

**Example: Integer (works with Double, Float, Numeric, etc.)**

This query retrieves all users whose age is less than 30. The `_lt` operator is a comparison operator that means "less
than". It is used to filter records based on a specified value.

<GraphiQLIDE
  query={`query UsersAgeLessThan30 {
  users(where: { age: { _lt: 30 }}) {
    id
    name
    age
  }
}`}
  response={`{
  "data": {
    "users": [
      {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "John",
        "age": 25
      },
      {
        "id": 2,
        "name": "Jane",
        "age": 28
      }
    ]
  }
}`}
/>

**Example: String or Text**

Fetch a list of authors whose names begin with M or any letter that follows M _(essentially, a filter based on a
dictionary sort)_:

<GraphiQLIDE
  query={`query AuthorsNameGreaterThanM {
  authors(
    where: {name: {_gt: "M"}}
  ) {
    id
    name
  }
}`}
  response={`{
  "data": {
    "authors": [
      {
        "id": 3,
        "name": "Sidney"
      },
      {
        "id": 9,
        "name": "Ninnetta"
      }
    ]
  }
}`}
/>

**Example: Integer (works with Double, Float, etc.)**

Fetch a list of all products with a price less than or equal to 10.

<GraphiQLIDE
  query={`query ProductsPriceLessThanOrEqualTo10 {
  products(where: { price: { _lte: 10 } }) {
    name
    price
  }
}`}
  response={`{
  "data": {
    "products": [
      {
        "name": "Bread",
        "price": 2.5
      },
      {
        "name": "Milk",
        "price": 3.5
      },
      {
        "name": "Eggs",
        "price": 4.5
      }
    ]
  }
}`}
/>

**Example: Integer (works with Double, Float, etc.)**

Fetch a list of articles rated 4 or more (`rating` is an integer field):

<GraphiQLIDE
  query={`query ArticlesRatingGTE4 {
  articles(
    where: {rating: {_gte: 4}}
  ) {
    id
    title
    rating
  }
}`}
  response={`{
  "data": {
    "articles": [
      {
        "id": 3,
        "title": "amet justo morbi",
        "rating": 4
      },
      {
        "id": 7,
        "title": "nisl duis ac",
        "rating": 4
      },
      {
        "id": 17,
        "title": "montes nascetur ridiculus",
        "rating": 5
      }
    ]
  }
}`}
/>

**Example: Date (works with Time, Timezone, etc.)**

Fetch a list of articles that were published on or after date "01/01/2018":

<GraphiQLIDE
  query={`query ArticlesPublishedAfterDate {
  articles(
    where: {published_on: {_gte: "2018-01-01"}}
  ) {
    id
    title
    published_on
  }
}`}
  response={`{
  "data": {
    "articles": [
      {
        "id": 2,
        "title": "a nibh",
        "published_on": "2018-06-10"
      },
      {
        "id": 6,
        "title": "sapien ut",
        "published_on": "2018-01-08"
      },
      {
        "id": 13,
        "title": "vulputate elementum",
        "published_on": "2018-03-10"
      },
      {
        "id": 15,
        "title": "vel dapibus at",
        "published_on": "2018-01-02"
      }
    ]
  }
}`}
/>

## List based search operators (\_in)

The `_in` (in a list) operator is used to compare field values to a list of values. They are compatible with any type
other than `json` or `jsonB` (like `Integer`, `Float`, `Double`, `Text`, `Boolean`, `Date`/`Time`/`Timestamp`, etc.).

The following are examples of using these operators on different types:

**Example: Integer (works with Double, Float, etc.)**

Fetch a list of articles rated 1, 3 or 5:

<GraphiQLIDE
  query={`query ArticlesRating1or3or5 {
  articles(
    where: {rating: {_in: [1,3,5]}}
  ) {
    id
    title
    rating
  }
}`}
  response={`{
  "data": {
    "articles": [
      {
        "id": 1,
        "title": "sit amet",
        "rating": 1
      },
      {
        "id": 2,
        "title": "a nibh",
        "rating": 3
      },
      {
        "id": 6,
        "title": "sapien ut",
        "rating": 1
      },
      {
        "id": 17,
        "title": "montes nascetur ridiculus",
        "rating": 5
      }
    ]
  }
}`}
/>

## Filter or check for null values (\_is_null)

Checking for null values can be achieved using the `_is_null` operator.

**Example: Filter null values in a field**

Fetch a list of articles that have a value in the `published_on` field:

<GraphiQLIDE
  query={`query PublishedArticles {
  articles(
    where: {published_on: {_is_null: false}}
  ) {
    id
    title
    published_on
  }
}`}
  response={`{
  "data": {
    "articles": [
      {
        "id": 1,
        "title": "sit amet",
        "published_on": "2017-08-09"
      },
      {
        "id": 2,
        "title": "a nibh",
        "published_on": "2018-06-10"
      },
      {
        "id": 3,
        "title": "amet justo morbi",
        "published_on": "2017-05-26"
      },
      {
        "id": 4,
        "title": "vestibulum ac est",
        "published_on": "2017-03-05"
      }
    ]
  }
}`}
/>

Commit message:

Add note about correct `_in` operator array syntax (#983)

docs/graphql-api/queries/filters/comparison-operators.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Filter by comparing values
sidebar_position: 1
description:
  "This documentation page provides a comprehensive overview on how to use comparison operators, such as equality and
  varying degrees of greater or less than operators, to filter and refine your Hasura API data queries. Topical examples
  are included for a variety of data types, including integers, strings, and booleans."
keywords:
  - hasura
  - data filtering
  - comparison operators
  - graphql queries
  - api data
  - hasura ddn
  - equality operators
  - comparison filtering
  - graphql api
  - data querying
seoFrontMatterUpdated: true
---

import GraphiQLIDE from "@site/src/components/GraphiQLIDE";

# Filter by Comparing Values

## Introduction

Comparison operators are used to compare values of the same type. For example, to compare two numbers, two strings, two
dates, etc.

## Equality operators (\_eq, \_neq)

The `_eq` (equal to) or the `_neq` (not equal to) operators are compatible with any type other than `json` or `jsonB`
(like `Integer`, `Float`, `Double`, `Text`, `Boolean`, `Date`/`Time`/`Timestamp`, etc.).

[//]: # '[//]: # "For more details on equality operators and PostgreSQL equivalents, refer to the"'
[//]: # '[//]: # "[API reference](/api-reference/graphql-api/query.mdx#generic-operators)."'

The following are examples of using the equality operators on different types.

**Example: Integer (works with Double, Float, Numeric, etc.)**

Fetch data about an author whose `id` _(an integer field)_ is equal to 3:

<GraphiQLIDE
  query={`query AuthorById {
  authors(
    where: {id: {_eq: 3}}
  ) {
    id
    name
  }
}`}
  response={`{
  "data": {
    "authors": [
      {
        "id": 3,
        "name": "Sidney"
      }
    ]
  }
}`}
/>

**Example: String or Text**

Fetch a list of authors with `name` _(a text field)_ as "Sidney":

<GraphiQLIDE
  query={`query AuthorByName {
  authors(
    where: {name: {_eq: "Sidney"}}
  ) {
    id
    name
  }
}`}
  response={`{
  "data": {
    "authors": [
      {
        "id": 3,
        "name": "Sidney"
      }
    ]
  }
}`}
/>

**Example: Boolean**

Fetch a list of articles that have not been published (`is_published` is a boolean field):

<GraphiQLIDE
  query={`query UnpublishedArticles {
  articles(
    where: {is_published: {_eq: false}}
  ) {
    id
    title
    is_published
  }
}`}
  response={`{
  "data": {
    "articles": [
      {
        "id": 5,
        "title": "ut blandit",
        "is_published": false
      },
      {
        "id": 8,
        "title": "donec semper sapien",
        "is_published": false
      },
      {
        "id": 10,
        "title": "dui proin leo",
        "is_published": false
      },
      {
        "id": 14,
        "title": "congue etiam justo",
        "is_published": false
      }
    ]
  }
}`}
/>

**Example: Date (works with Time, Timezone, etc.)**

Fetch a list of articles that were published on a certain date (`published_on` is a Date field):

<GraphiQLIDE
  query={`query ArticlesByDate {
  articles(
    where: {published_on: {_eq: "2017-05-26"}}
  ) {
    id
    title
    published_on
  }
}`}
  response={`{
  "data": {
    "articles": [
      {
        "id": 3,
        "title": "amet justo morbi",
        "published_on": "2017-05-26"
      }
    ]
  }
}`}
/>

**Example: Integer (works with Integer, Float, Double, etc.)**

Fetch a list of users whose age is _not_ 30 (`age` is an Integer field):

<GraphiQLIDE
  query={`query UsersNotAge30 {
  users(where: { age: { _neq: 30 } }) {
    id
    name
    age
  }
}`}
  response={`{
  "data": {
    "users": [
      {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "John",
        "age": 20
      },
      {
        "id": 2,
        "name": "Jane",
        "age": 25
      },
      {
        "id": 4,
        "name": "Bob",
        "age": 40
      }
    ]
  }`}
/>

:::info Caveat for "null" values

By design, the `_eq` or `_neq` operators will not return rows with `null` values.

To also return rows with `null` values, the `_is_null` operator needs to be used along with these joined by the `_or`
operator.

For example, to fetch a list of articles where the `is_published` column is either `false` or `null`:

<GraphiQLIDE
  query={`query UnpublishedArticles {
  articles (
    where: {
      _or: [
        {is_published: {_eq: false}},
        {is_published: {_is_null: true}}
      ]
    }
  )
  {
    id
    title
    is_published
  }
}`}
  response={`{
  "data": {
    "articles": [
      {
        "id": 1,
        "title": "Robben Island",
        "is_published": false
      },
      {
        "id": 2,
        "title": "The Life of Matthias",
        "is_published": false
      },
      {
        "id": 3,
        "title": "All about Hasura",
        "is_published": null
      },
    ]
  }
}`}
/>

:::

## Greater than or less than operators (\_gt, \_lt, \_gte, \_lte)

The `_gt` (greater than), `_lt` (less than), `_gte` (greater than or equal to), `_lte` (less than or equal to) operators
are compatible with any type other than `json` or `jsonB` (like `Integer`, `Float`, `Double`, `Text`, `Boolean`,
`Date`/`Time`/`Timestamp`, etc.).

[//]: # '[//]: # "For more details on greater than or less than operators and PostgreSQL equivalents, refer to the"'
[//]: # '[//]: # "[API reference](/api-reference/graphql-api/query.mdx#generic-operators)."'

The following are examples of using these operators on different types:

**Example: Integer (works with Double, Float, Numeric, etc.)**

This query retrieves all users whose age is less than 30. The `_lt` operator is a comparison operator that means "less
than". It is used to filter records based on a specified value.

<GraphiQLIDE
  query={`query UsersAgeLessThan30 {
  users(where: { age: { _lt: 30 }}) {
    id
    name
    age
  }
}`}
  response={`{
  "data": {
    "users": [
      {
        "id": 1,
        "name": "John",
        "age": 25
      },
      {
        "id": 2,
        "name": "Jane",
        "age": 28
      }
    ]
  }
}`}
/>

**Example: String or Text**

Fetch a list of authors whose names begin with M or any letter that follows M _(essentially, a filter based on a
dictionary sort)_:

<GraphiQLIDE
  query={`query AuthorsNameGreaterThanM {
  authors(
    where: {name: {_gt: "M"}}
  ) {
    id
    name
  }
}`}
  response={`{
  "data": {
    "authors": [
      {
        "id": 3,
        "name": "Sidney"
      },
      {
        "id": 9,
        "name": "Ninnetta"
      }
    ]
  }
}`}
/>

**Example: Integer (works with Double, Float, etc.)**

Fetch a list of all products with a price less than or equal to 10.

<GraphiQLIDE
  query={`query ProductsPriceLessThanOrEqualTo10 {
  products(where: { price: { _lte: 10 } }) {
    name
    price
  }
}`}
  response={`{
  "data": {
    "products": [
      {
        "name": "Bread",
        "price": 2.5
      },
      {
        "name": "Milk",
        "price": 3.5
      },
      {
        "name": "Eggs",
        "price": 4.5
      }
    ]
  }
}`}
/>

**Example: Integer (works with Double, Float, etc.)**

Fetch a list of articles rated 4 or more (`rating` is an integer field):

<GraphiQLIDE
  query={`query ArticlesRatingGTE4 {
  articles(
    where: {rating: {_gte: 4}}
  ) {
    id
    title
    rating
  }
}`}
  response={`{
  "data": {
    "articles": [
      {
        "id": 3,
        "title": "amet justo morbi",
        "rating": 4
      },
      {
        "id": 7,
        "title": "nisl duis ac",
        "rating": 4
      },
      {
        "id": 17,
        "title": "montes nascetur ridiculus",
        "rating": 5
      }
    ]
  }
}`}
/>

**Example: Date (works with Time, Timezone, etc.)**

Fetch a list of articles that were published on or after date "01/01/2018":

<GraphiQLIDE
  query={`query ArticlesPublishedAfterDate {
  articles(
    where: {published_on: {_gte: "2018-01-01"}}
  ) {
    id
    title
    published_on
  }
}`}
  response={`{
  "data": {
    "articles": [
      {
        "id": 2,
        "title": "a nibh",
        "published_on": "2018-06-10"
      },
      {
        "id": 6,
        "title": "sapien ut",
        "published_on": "2018-01-08"
      },
      {
        "id": 13,
        "title": "vulputate elementum",
        "published_on": "2018-03-10"
      },
      {
        "id": 15,
        "title": "vel dapibus at",
        "published_on": "2018-01-02"
      }
    ]
  }
}`}
/>

## List based search operators (\_in)

The `_in` (in a list) operator is used to compare field values to a list of values. They are compatible with any type
other than `json` or `jsonB` (like `Integer`, `Float`, `Double`, `Text`, `Boolean`, `Date`/`Time`/`Timestamp`, etc.).

The following are examples of using these operators on different types:

**Example: Integer (works with Double, Float, etc.)**

Fetch a list of articles rated 1, 3 or 5:

<GraphiQLIDE
  query={`query ArticlesRating1or3or5 {
  articles(
    where: {rating: {_in: [1,3,5]}}
  ) {
    id
    title
    rating
  }
}`}
  response={`{
  "data": {
    "articles": [
      {
        "id": 1,
        "title": "sit amet",
        "rating": 1
      },
      {
        "id": 2,
        "title": "a nibh",
        "rating": 3
      },
      {
        "id": 6,
        "title": "sapien ut",
        "rating": 1
      },
      {
        "id": 17,
        "title": "montes nascetur ridiculus",
        "rating": 5
      }
    ]
  }
}`}
/>

:::caution Using _in operator with multiple values
When using the `_in` operator with multiple values in GraphiQL or your application code, always use proper array syntax with square brackets:
```
where: { rating: { _in: [1, 3, 5] } }   // CORRECT
```

Do not use comma-separated strings, as this will not work correctly:
```
where: { rating: { _in: "1, 3, 5" } }   // INCORRECT
```

While GraphiQL may sometimes auto-generate queries using the incorrect string format, these queries will not function properly when executed against the GraphQL server.
:::

## Filter or check for null values (\_is_null)

Checking for null values can be achieved using the `_is_null` operator.

**Example: Filter null values in a field**

Fetch a list of articles that have a value in the `published_on` field:

<GraphiQLIDE
  query={`query PublishedArticles {
  articles(
    where: {published_on: {_is_null: false}}
  ) {
    id
    title
    published_on
  }
}`}
  response={`{
  "data": {
    "articles": [
      {
        "id": 1,
        "title": "sit amet",
        "published_on": "2017-08-09"
      },
      {
        "id": 2,
        "title": "a nibh",
        "published_on": "2018-06-10"
      },
      {
        "id": 3,
        "title": "amet justo morbi",
        "published_on": "2017-05-26"
      },
      {
        "id": 4,
        "title": "vestibulum ac est",
        "published_on": "2017-03-05"
      }
    ]
  }
}`}
/>
