docs/plugins/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: Basics
sidebar_position: 1
description: "Learn about Hasura's powerful plugins architecture."
keywords:
  - hasura plugins
  - allowlist plugin
  - plugins architecture
  - engine plugins
seoFrontMatterUpdated: false
---

# Engine Plugins

## Introduction

Hasura's engine plugins architecture allows you to integrate HTTP hooks at various stages of the API execution pipeline.
This functionality enables you to embed custom logic that reacts to specific events, effectively extending the core
capabilities of your API. These hooks can be triggered either before or after the execution of a query or mutation,
providing a powerful mechanism to implement user-defined workflows and event-driven customizations.

## Types of plugins

### Pre-Parse plugins

Pre-parse plugins are executed at the very beginning of the execution pipeline. They allow you to insert custom logic
**before** the query-parsing step occurs. This enables you to pre-process, or manipulate incoming queries, and modify
the behavior of your API at an early stage.

### Pre-Response plugins

Pre-response plugins are triggered at the final stage of the execution pipeline, **after the query has been executed but
before the response is sent to the client**. These plugins allow you to execute logic based on the response such as
calling third-party services before the client receives the response.

## Find out more

- [Learn more about how plugins work](/plugins/introduction.mdx)
- [Allowlist](/plugins/allowlist/index.mdx)
- [Caching](/plugins/caching/index.mdx)
- [RESTified Endpoints](/plugins/restified-endpoints/index.mdx)

Commit message:

updates to the pre-route plugin docs (#874)
Co-authored-by: Rob Dominguez <rob.dominguez@hasura.io>

docs/plugins/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: Basics
sidebar_position: 1
description: "Learn about Hasura's powerful plugins architecture."
keywords:
  - hasura plugins
  - allowlist plugin
  - plugins architecture
  - engine plugins
seoFrontMatterUpdated: false
---

# Engine Plugins

## Introduction

Hasura's engine plugins architecture allows you to integrate HTTP hooks at various stages of the API execution pipeline.
This functionality enables you to embed custom logic that reacts to specific events, effectively extending the core
capabilities of your API. These hooks can be triggered either before or after the execution of a query or mutation,
providing a powerful mechanism to implement user-defined workflows and event-driven customizations.

## Types of plugins

### Pre-Parse plugins

Pre-parse plugins are executed at the very beginning of the execution pipeline. They allow you to insert custom logic
**before** the query-parsing step occurs. This enables you to pre-process, or manipulate incoming queries, and modify
the behavior of your API at an early stage.

### Pre-Response plugins

Pre-response plugins are triggered at the final stage of the execution pipeline, **after the query has been executed but
before the response is sent to the client**. These plugins allow you to execute logic based on the response such as
calling third-party services before the client receives the response.

### Pre-Route plugins

Pre-route plugins are executed at the very beginning of request handling, **before predefined endpoints are processed**. They allow you to insert custom HTTP handlers into your API, enabling features like REST-style GraphQL endpoints, internal tools, or documentation interfaces such as a GraphQL schema visualizer or Swagger UI for a JSON API.

## Find out more

- [Learn more about how plugins work](/plugins/introduction.mdx)
- [Allowlist](/plugins/allowlist/index.mdx)
- [Caching](/plugins/caching/index.mdx)
- [RESTified Endpoints](/plugins/restified-endpoints/index.mdx)
