docs/graphql-api/queries/index.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Queries
sidebar_position: 0
description:
  "In-depth guide to conducting GraphQL Queries and harnessing the full potential of Hasura's GraphQL API. Discover
  functionalities like simple queries, nesting, sorting, pagination, and employing multiple arguments or queries. Learn
  more about filtering queries and the use of variables, aliases, fragments, and directives."
keywords:
  - graphql queries
  - hasura graphql api
  - api queries
  - data reading
  - hasura console
  - data connector features
  - hasura ddn
  - simple queries
  - database management
  - paginating results
seoFrontMatterUpdated: true
---

# Basics of Queries

GraphQL queries are used to **read data** by interacting with [models](/supergraph-modeling/models.mdx) in your Hasura
DDN project.

Queries can be used to return multiple records while specifying exactly which fields to include in the response. You can
also query for unique records with the same level of control, retrieving a single result that matches your conditions.

In addition to fetching records, queries can perform aggregations, which allow you to compute and summarize data. For
example, you can count the number of records, calculate averages, or find totals directly in the query response.

Since the GraphQL API is self-documenting, you can write queries manually or use tools like auto-completion and the
GraphiQL explorer in the Hasura DDN console to help you build and test them. GraphiQL displays the available root-level
types, fields, and relationships, making it easier to construct queries accurately.

Depending on the features enabled by a data connector, you will have access to a range of queries as defined here.

- [Simple Queries](/graphql-api/queries/simple-queries.mdx)
- [Nested Queries](/graphql-api/queries/nested-queries.mdx)
- [Sort Query Results](/graphql-api/queries/sorting.mdx)
- [Paginate Query Results](/graphql-api/queries/pagination.mdx)
- [Multiple Arguments](/graphql-api/queries/multiple-arguments.mdx)
- [Multiple Queries](/graphql-api/queries/multiple-queries.mdx)
- [Variables, Aliases, Fragments, Directives](/graphql-api/queries/variables-aliases-fragments-directives.mdx)
- [Filtering Queries](/graphql-api/queries/filters/index.mdx)
  - [Comparing values](/graphql-api/queries/filters/comparison-operators.mdx)
  - [Boolean expressions](/graphql-api/queries/filters/boolean-operators.mdx)
  - [Text](/graphql-api/queries/filters/text-search-operators.mdx)
  - [Nested objects](/graphql-api/queries/filters/nested-objects.mdx)

:::info Not sure what your connector supports?

For questions about feature support, check out the [connector reference docs](/reference/connectors/index.mdx).

:::

Commit message:

Update queries index to match mutations
Upates queries index to match mutations by adding:
* headings
* configuration section with links out to metadata

docs/graphql-api/queries/index.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Queries
sidebar_position: 0
description:
  "In-depth guide to conducting GraphQL Queries and harnessing the full potential of Hasura's GraphQL API. Discover
  functionalities like simple queries, nesting, sorting, pagination, and employing multiple arguments or queries. Learn
  more about filtering queries and the use of variables, aliases, fragments, and directives."
keywords:
  - graphql queries
  - hasura graphql api
  - api queries
  - data reading
  - hasura console
  - data connector features
  - hasura ddn
  - simple queries
  - database management
  - paginating results
seoFrontMatterUpdated: true
---

# Basics of Queries

## Introduction

GraphQL queries are used to **read data** by interacting with [models](/supergraph-modeling/models.mdx) in your Hasura
DDN project.

Queries can be used to return multiple records while specifying exactly which fields to include in the response. You can
also query for unique records with the same level of control, retrieving a single result that matches your conditions.

In addition to fetching records, queries can perform aggregations, which allow you to compute and summarize data. For
example, you can count the number of records, calculate averages, or find totals directly in the query response.

Since the GraphQL API is self-documenting, you can write queries manually or use tools like auto-completion and the
GraphiQL explorer in the Hasura DDN console to help you build and test them. GraphiQL displays the available root-level
types, fields, and relationships, making it easier to construct queries accurately.

## Configuration

You can configure the overall usage of queries in your GraphQL API using
[the `GraphQlConfig` object](/supergraph-modeling/graphql-config.mdx#graphqlconfig-querygraphqlconfig) in your metadata.
Additionally, you can customize individual queries by modifying
[the `Model` metadata object](/supergraph-modeling/models.mdx) representing it.

## Next steps

Depending on the features enabled by a data connector, you will have access to a range of queries as defined here.

- [Simple Queries](/graphql-api/queries/simple-queries.mdx)
- [Nested Queries](/graphql-api/queries/nested-queries.mdx)
- [Sort Query Results](/graphql-api/queries/sorting.mdx)
- [Paginate Query Results](/graphql-api/queries/pagination.mdx)
- [Multiple Arguments](/graphql-api/queries/multiple-arguments.mdx)
- [Multiple Queries](/graphql-api/queries/multiple-queries.mdx)
- [Variables, Aliases, Fragments, Directives](/graphql-api/queries/variables-aliases-fragments-directives.mdx)
- [Filtering Queries](/graphql-api/queries/filters/index.mdx)
  - [Comparing values](/graphql-api/queries/filters/comparison-operators.mdx)
  - [Boolean expressions](/graphql-api/queries/filters/boolean-operators.mdx)
  - [Text](/graphql-api/queries/filters/text-search-operators.mdx)
  - [Nested objects](/graphql-api/queries/filters/nested-objects.mdx)

:::info Not sure what your connector supports?

For questions about feature support, check out the [connector reference docs](/reference/connectors/index.mdx).

:::
