docs/observability/model-analytics/operation.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Operation Analytics
sidebar_position: 2
description:
  "Dive into the comprehensive guide for the Hasura Operation level analytics. Understand how different operations
  (queries and mutations) are interacting with your models and commands."
keywords:
  - graphql analysis
  - query optimization
  - execution plan
  - hasura explain api
  - api debugging
  - graphql performance
  - data connector explain
  - api endpoint analysis
  - query execution
  - api troubleshooting
seoFrontMatterUpdated: true
---

import Thumbnail from "@site/src/components/Thumbnail";

# Operation Analytics

## Introduction

Operation-level analytics provide a broader view of how different operations (queries and mutations) are interacting
with your [models](/supergraph-modeling/models.mdx) and [commands](/supergraph-modeling/commands.mdx).
This helps in identifying usage patterns, most and least frequently accessed portions of your data graph. In turn
helping optimize performance, manage resources better, and identify potential areas for improvement or scaling.

On the `Insights` panel from the left navigation, then on the `Analytics` tab, operation analytics can be
viewed for either an entire project or a single build.

<Thumbnail src="/img/model-analytics/operation-analytics.png" alt="Operation Analytics" width="1000px" />

## Model Requests

The Model Requests section provides a visual representation of the number of requests per day made on a particular model. Such insights help in pinpointing peak, and low usage periods and understanding how the model's usage varies over time.

<Thumbnail src="/img/model-analytics/model-request-graph.png" alt="Operation Analytics" width="1000px" />

## Operation Summary

The Operation Summary section provides an overview of the operations with the highest and lowest request counts. This
information is crucial for understanding which queries or mutations are most frequently or least frequently access the model.

<Thumbnail src="/img/model-analytics/operation-summary.png" alt="Operation Analytics" width="1000px" />

## Operations List

The Operations List section provides a detailed table of all operations for a particular model. This table includes the
operation name, depth level, operation type, and the number of requests. This comprehensive view helps in identifying
and analyzing the usage patterns and complexities of different operations on a model.

### Table columns

- **Operation:** The name of the GraphQL operation.
- **Depth:** Indicates the nesting depth of the operation. Depth in graphql queries can be a performance
  bottleneck.
- **Type:** The type of operation, such as query or mutation.
- **Number of Requests:** The total number of requests made for this operation.

<Thumbnail src="/img/model-analytics/operations-list.png" alt="Operation Analytics" width="1000px" />

### Operation details

Clicking on the operation name in the table shows additional details about the selected
operation.

- **Query Details:** Displays the structure of the GraphQL query, showing the fields being queried.
- **Operation Requests:** A graph that shows the request traffic for this operation over the last month, allowing
  users to identify usage trends and peak periods.
- **Models Used:** Lists the models to which the query is made, providing insight into the data sources involved in
  the operation.

This detailed view enables you to dive deeper into specific operations, understand their structure, and analyze their
usage over time, enabling you to make informed decisions about your APIs evolution and optimization.

<Thumbnail src="/img/model-analytics/Operation-detail.png" alt="Operation Analytics" width="1000px" />

Commit message:

Update analytics docs (#794)
Co-authored-by: hasura-bot <accounts@hasura.io>
Co-authored-by: Rikin Kachhia <54616969+rikinsk@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Sean Park-Ross <94021366+seanparkross@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/observability/model-analytics/operation.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Operation Analytics
sidebar_position: 2
description:
  "Dive into the comprehensive guide for the Hasura Operation level analytics. Understand how different operations
  (queries and mutations) are interacting with your models and commands."
keywords:
  - graphql analysis
  - query optimization
  - execution plan
  - hasura explain api
  - api debugging
  - graphql performance
  - data connector explain
  - api endpoint analysis
  - query execution
  - api troubleshooting
seoFrontMatterUpdated: true
---

import Thumbnail from "@site/src/components/Thumbnail";

# Operation Analytics

## Introduction

Operation-level analytics provide a broader view of how different operations (queries and mutations) are interacting
with your [models](/supergraph-modeling/models.mdx) and [commands](/supergraph-modeling/commands.mdx).
This helps in identifying usage patterns, most and least frequently accessed portions of your data graph. In turn
helping optimize performance, manage resources better, and identify potential areas for improvement or scaling.

Operation analytics can be accessed via the `Analytics` tab within the `Explorer` panel for any specific model or command, allowing 
users to view data for either the project API or of a particular build.

<Thumbnail src="/img/model-analytics/operation-analytics.png" alt="Operation Analytics" width="1000px" />

## Model Requests

The Model Requests section provides a visual representation of the number of requests per day made on a particular model. Such insights help in pinpointing peak, and low usage periods and understanding how the model's usage varies over time.

<Thumbnail src="/img/model-analytics/model-request-graph.png" alt="Operation Analytics" width="1000px" />

## Operation Summary

The Operation Summary section provides an overview of the operations with the highest and lowest request counts. This
information is crucial for understanding which queries or mutations are most frequently or least frequently access the model.

<Thumbnail src="/img/model-analytics/operation-summary.png" alt="Operation Analytics" width="1000px" />

## Operations List

The Operations List section provides a detailed table of all operations for a particular model. This table includes the
operation name, depth level, operation type, and the number of requests. This comprehensive view helps in identifying
and analyzing the usage patterns and complexities of different operations on a model.

### Table columns

- **Operation:** The name of the GraphQL operation.
- **Depth:** Indicates the nesting depth of the operation. Depth in graphql queries can be a performance
  bottleneck.
- **Type:** The type of operation, such as query or mutation.
- **Number of Requests:** The total number of requests made for this operation.

<Thumbnail src="/img/model-analytics/operations-list.png" alt="Operation Analytics" width="1000px" />

### Operation details

Clicking on the operation name in the table shows additional details about the selected
operation.

- **Query Details:** Displays the structure of the GraphQL query, showing the fields being queried.
- **Operation Requests:** A graph that shows the request traffic for this operation over the last month, allowing
  users to identify usage trends and peak periods.
- **Models Used:** Lists the models to which the query is made, providing insight into the data sources involved in
  the operation.

This detailed view enables you to dive deeper into specific operations, understand their structure, and analyze their
usage over time, enabling you to make informed decisions about your APIs evolution and optimization.

<Thumbnail src="/img/model-analytics/Operation-detail.png" alt="Operation Analytics" width="1000px" />
