docs/connectors/mongodb/native-operations/native-queries.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Native Queries
description:
  "Native queries allow you to run custom aggregation pipelines on your MongoDB database. This allows you to run queries
  that are not supported by Hasura's GraphQL engine. This page explains how to configure various types of native queries
  in Hasura."
keywords:
  - native queries
seoFrontMatterUpdated: false
---

# Native Queries

## Introduction

Native Queries allow you to run custom queries on your MongoDB database. This allows you to run queries that are not
supported by Hasura's GraphQL engine. These queries are defined as [aggregation pipelines][] which is the query format
that is used by MongoDB's aggregate command.

[aggregation pipelines]: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/aggregation/#std-label-aggregation-pipeline-intro

## Managing native queries

Native Queries can be managed either via the DDN CLI, or by editing connector configuration files directly.

To connect a query to your data graph the native query configuration must declare the type of data that it produces, and
the types of any parameters. The major difference between using the CLI vs configuring by hand is how these type
declarations are managed.

### 1. CLI (BETA)

The CLI will type-check your aggregation pipeline, and will automatically produce type declarations for you. But this
functionality is experimental - there are aggregation pipeline features that the CLI does not recognize yet. The CLI
will not be able to produce configurations for pipelines that use those features. See [supported pipeline features][].

### 2. Directly in configuration files

When writing configuration directly you may use any aggregation pipeline features, and you have complete control over
how types are declared. But you must write all type declarations yourself.

:::tip Switching between CLI and configuration files

You can freely switch between configuring with the CLI or writing configuration files directly. For example you can
manage one native query with the CLI, and configure another directly; or you can edit CLI-generated configuration files.
The recommendation is to try using the CLI first, and if it doesn't work or does not produce the correct configuration
then write configuration directly.

:::

[supported pipeline features]: ./supported-aggregation-pipeline-features.mdx

## Manage native queries with the DDN CLI {#manage-native-queries-with-the-ddn-cli}

:::caution Connector version requirement

Managing native queries using the CLI requires version 1.5.0 or later of the MongoDB Connector. If you have an earlier
version please skip to the [Write native query configurations directly](#write-native-query-configurations-directly)
section.

This is a BETA feature - it is a work in progress, and will not work for all cases. It is safe to experiment with since
it is limited to managing native query configuration files, and does not lock you into anything.

:::

### Create a native query

Create a file with a `.json` extension that contains the aggregation pipeline for you query. For example this pipeline
outputs frequency counts for words appearing in movie titles in a given year:

```json title="title_word_frequency.json"
[
  {
    "$match": {
      "year": "{{ year }}"
    }
  },
  {
    "$replaceWith": {
      "title_words": { "$split": ["$title", " "] }
    }
  },
  { "$unwind": { "path": "$title_words" } },
  {
    "$group": {
      "_id": "$title_words",
      "count": { "$count": {} }
    }
  }
]
```

In your supergraph directory run a command like this using the path to the pipeline file as an argument,

```sh
$ ddn connector plugin \
  --connector app/connector/my_connector/connector.yaml \
  -- native-query create title_word_frequency.json \
  --collection movies
```

The name of the native query is based on the input JSON file name, in this case `title_word_frequency`. You can override
this with the `--name` flag.

If your aggregation pipeline uses a collection as an input specify it with the `--collection` flag. Your connector must
already be configured with the schema for the collection. Type inference will be based on the configured schema.

If you are updating an existing native query add the `--force` flag to overwrite the existing configuration.

You should see output like this:

```text
Wrote native query configuration to your-project/connector/native_queries/title_word_frequency.json

input collection: movies
representation: collection

## parameters

year: int!

## result type

{
  _id: string!,
  count: int!
}
```

You may keep the pipeline file that you wrote if you think that you might want to edit it to update the native query
later, or you may delete it.

The final step is to update your metadata to track the new native query:

```sh
$ ddn connector-link update my_connector --add-all-resources
```

#### Native Query Parameters

Parameters / arguments for your native query are specified using the placeholder syntax, `"{{ parameter_name }}"` inside
a string. The example above includes a parameter called `year` using this syntax.

Despite the placeholder appearing in a string, if the only content of the string is the placeholder then the placeholder
will be replaced with an argument value at query time which may be any type, including complex types such as arrays or
objects. In the example above the type of the `year` parameter is `int!` so the string `"{{ year }}"` will be replaced
with a non-null int value.

The type checker attempts to infer types for parameters. If it is not able to do so you can add a type annotation with a
bar (`|`) following the parameter name. For example, `"{{ year | int! }}"`. Type annotations use a GraphQL-style type
expression syntax so for example a non-nullable list of nullable double values would be `[double]!`. But instead of
GraphQL types these annotations use BSON types using the lower-case alias names [here][BSON Types]. In addition to BSON
types you can also reference object types using names specified in your connector configuration schema, and there is a
special type, `extendedJSON` that is the "any" type - values of that type can hold any data.

[BSON Types]: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/bson-types/

The same parameter may occur any number of times in a pipeline. If you use a type annotation you may apply it to any one
occurrence of the parameter, or to all of them.

### List, inspect, and delete native queries

List names of configured native queries with,

```sh
$ ddn connector plugin \
  --connector app/connector/my_connector/connector.yaml \
  -- native-query list
```

Show information about a native including its pipeline and type declarations with,

```sh
$ ddn connector plugin \
  --connector app/connector/my_connector/connector.yaml \
  -- native-query show <native-query-name>
```

Delete a native query with,

```sh
$ ddn connector plugin \
  --connector app/connector/my_connector/connector.yaml \
  -- native-query delete <native-query-name>
```

After deleting you will need to update your metadata configuration as well.

## Write native query configurations directly {#write-native-query-configurations-directly}

Native Queries can be defined by

1. Adding a `native_queries` directory if one doesn't already exist in your connector configuration directory
2. Adding a `.json` file following the syntax laid out in the following sections.

Native Queries can take arguments using the `"{{argument_name}}"` syntax. Arguments must be specified along with their
type.

Here's an example of simple `"hello"` Native Query:

### Configuration

```json
{
  "name": "hello",
  "representation": "function",
  "description": "Basic test of native queries",
  "arguments": {
    "name": { "type": { "scalar": "string" } }
  },
  "resultDocumentType": "Hello",
  "objectTypes": {
    "Hello": {
      "fields": {
        "__value": { "type": { "scalar": "string" } }
      }
    }
  },
  "pipeline": [
    {
      "$documents": [
        {
          "__value": "{{ name }}"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

This will create a query called `"hello"` which takes a single argument called `"name"` of type `string`. The query will
return an object with the key `"__value"` and the value of the argument `"hello"`.

:::tip Valid Native Query syntax

Check out our page on writing valid Hasura DDN
[Native Operations syntax](/connectors/mongodb/native-operations/syntax.mdx).

:::

To add the native query to your data graph you need to update metadata with
a command like this one,

```sh
$ ddn connector-link update <connector-name> --add-all-resources
```

### Usage

With the example above, you can then use the query in your GraphQL API like this:

```graphql
query MyQuery {
  hello(name: "world") {
    __value
  }
}
```

Commit message:

add danger callouts to explain that inputs are not sanitized

docs/connectors/mongodb/native-operations/native-queries.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Native Queries
description:
  "Native queries allow you to run custom aggregation pipelines on your MongoDB database. This allows you to run queries
  that are not supported by Hasura's GraphQL engine. This page explains how to configure various types of native queries
  in Hasura."
keywords:
  - native queries
seoFrontMatterUpdated: false
---

# Native Queries

## Introduction

Native Queries allow you to run custom queries on your MongoDB database. This allows you to run queries that are not
supported by Hasura's GraphQL engine. These queries are defined as [aggregation pipelines][] which is the query format
that is used by MongoDB's aggregate command.

[aggregation pipelines]: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/aggregation/#std-label-aggregation-pipeline-intro

## Managing native queries

Native Queries can be managed either via the DDN CLI, or by editing connector configuration files directly.

To connect a query to your data graph the native query configuration must declare the type of data that it produces, and
the types of any parameters. The major difference between using the CLI vs configuring by hand is how these type
declarations are managed.

### 1. CLI (BETA)

The CLI will type-check your aggregation pipeline, and will automatically produce type declarations for you. But this
functionality is experimental - there are aggregation pipeline features that the CLI does not recognize yet. The CLI
will not be able to produce configurations for pipelines that use those features. See [supported pipeline features][].

### 2. Directly in configuration files

When writing configuration directly you may use any aggregation pipeline features, and you have complete control over
how types are declared. But you must write all type declarations yourself.

:::tip Switching between CLI and configuration files

You can freely switch between configuring with the CLI or writing configuration files directly. For example you can
manage one native query with the CLI, and configure another directly; or you can edit CLI-generated configuration files.
The recommendation is to try using the CLI first, and if it doesn't work or does not produce the correct configuration
then write configuration directly.

:::

[supported pipeline features]: ./supported-aggregation-pipeline-features.mdx

## Manage native queries with the DDN CLI {#manage-native-queries-with-the-ddn-cli}

:::caution Connector version requirement

Managing native queries using the CLI requires version 1.5.0 or later of the MongoDB Connector. If you have an earlier
version please skip to the [Write native query configurations directly](#write-native-query-configurations-directly)
section.

This is a BETA feature - it is a work in progress, and will not work for all cases. It is safe to experiment with since
it is limited to managing native query configuration files, and does not lock you into anything.

:::

### Create a native query

Create a file with a `.json` extension that contains the aggregation pipeline for you query. For example this pipeline
outputs frequency counts for words appearing in movie titles in a given year:

```json title="title_word_frequency.json"
[
  {
    "$match": {
      "year": "{{ year }}"
    }
  },
  {
    "$replaceWith": {
      "title_words": { "$split": ["$title", " "] }
    }
  },
  { "$unwind": { "path": "$title_words" } },
  {
    "$group": {
      "_id": "$title_words",
      "count": { "$count": {} }
    }
  }
]
```

In your supergraph directory run a command like this using the path to the pipeline file as an argument,

```sh
$ ddn connector plugin \
  --connector app/connector/my_connector/connector.yaml \
  -- native-query create title_word_frequency.json \
  --collection movies
```

The name of the native query is based on the input JSON file name, in this case `title_word_frequency`. You can override
this with the `--name` flag.

If your aggregation pipeline uses a collection as an input specify it with the `--collection` flag. Your connector must
already be configured with the schema for the collection. Type inference will be based on the configured schema.

If you are updating an existing native query add the `--force` flag to overwrite the existing configuration.

You should see output like this:

```text
Wrote native query configuration to your-project/connector/native_queries/title_word_frequency.json

input collection: movies
representation: collection

## parameters

year: int!

## result type

{
  _id: string!,
  count: int!
}
```

You may keep the pipeline file that you wrote if you think that you might want to edit it to update the native query
later, or you may delete it.

The final step is to update your metadata to track the new native query:

```sh
$ ddn connector-link update my_connector --add-all-resources
```

#### Native Query Parameters

Parameters / arguments for your native query are specified using the placeholder syntax, `"{{ parameter_name }}"` inside
a string. The example above includes a parameter called `year` using this syntax.

:::danger Avoid code injection

When placeholders are substituted arguments are **not** sanitized. It is up to you as author of a native query to
construct the query to avoid potential code injection. See [Security Best Practices](./security-best-practices.mdx).

:::

Despite the placeholder appearing in a string, if the only content of the string is the placeholder then the placeholder
will be replaced with an argument value at query time which may be any type, including complex types such as arrays or
objects. In the example above the type of the `year` parameter is `int!` so the string `"{{ year }}"` will be replaced
with a non-null int value.

The type checker attempts to infer types for parameters. If it is not able to do so you can add a type annotation with a
bar (`|`) following the parameter name. For example, `"{{ year | int! }}"`. Type annotations use a GraphQL-style type
expression syntax so for example a non-nullable list of nullable double values would be `[double]!`. But instead of
GraphQL types these annotations use BSON types using the lower-case alias names [here][BSON Types]. In addition to BSON
types you can also reference object types using names specified in your connector configuration schema, and there is a
special type, `extendedJSON` that is the "any" type - values of that type can hold any data.

[BSON Types]: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/bson-types/

The same parameter may occur any number of times in a pipeline. If you use a type annotation you may apply it to any one
occurrence of the parameter, or to all of them.

### List, inspect, and delete native queries

List names of configured native queries with,

```sh
$ ddn connector plugin \
  --connector app/connector/my_connector/connector.yaml \
  -- native-query list
```

Show information about a native including its pipeline and type declarations with,

```sh
$ ddn connector plugin \
  --connector app/connector/my_connector/connector.yaml \
  -- native-query show <native-query-name>
```

Delete a native query with,

```sh
$ ddn connector plugin \
  --connector app/connector/my_connector/connector.yaml \
  -- native-query delete <native-query-name>
```

After deleting you will need to update your metadata configuration as well.

## Write native query configurations directly {#write-native-query-configurations-directly}

Native Queries can be defined by

1. Adding a `native_queries` directory if one doesn't already exist in your connector configuration directory
2. Adding a `.json` file following the syntax laid out in the following sections.

Native Queries can take arguments using the placeholder syntax, `"{{argument_name}}"`. Arguments must be specified along
with their type.

:::danger Avoid code injection

When placeholders are substituted arguments are **not** sanitized. It is up to you as author of a native query to
construct the query to avoid potential code injection. See [Security Best Practices](./security-best-practices.mdx).

:::

Here's an example of simple `"hello"` Native Query:

### Configuration

```json
{
  "name": "hello",
  "representation": "function",
  "description": "Basic test of native queries",
  "arguments": {
    "name": { "type": { "scalar": "string" } }
  },
  "resultDocumentType": "Hello",
  "objectTypes": {
    "Hello": {
      "fields": {
        "__value": { "type": { "scalar": "string" } }
      }
    }
  },
  "pipeline": [
    {
      "$documents": [
        {
          "__value": "{{ name }}"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

This will create a query called `"hello"` which takes a single argument called `"name"` of type `string`. The query will
return an object with the key `"__value"` and the value of the argument `"hello"`.

:::tip Valid Native Query syntax

Check out our page on writing valid Hasura DDN
[Native Operations syntax](/connectors/mongodb/native-operations/syntax.mdx).

:::

To add the native query to your data graph you need to update metadata with
a command like this one,

```sh
$ ddn connector-link update <connector-name> --add-all-resources
```

### Usage

With the example above, you can then use the query in your GraphQL API like this:

```graphql
query MyQuery {
  hello(name: "world") {
    __value
  }
}
```
