---
sidebar_position: 5
sidebar_label: Security Best Practices
description:
  "When writing native queries it is critical to understand the security implications of how arguments are interpreted."
keywords:
  - native queries
  - native mutations
  - security
seoFrontMatterUpdated: false
---

# Security Best Practices in MongoDB Native Operations

Native queries and native mutations allow you to construct any arbitrary query or database command respectively. That
power comes with the potential to introduce exploits in your API which you should take care to avoid. In particular
input parameters in native queries and native mutations are **not** sanitized so you must take care to escape uses of
inputs. These are inputs that appear in your query or command using the double-curly-brace placeholder syntax: `{{
parameter_name }}`.

## Do not substitute ASTs

Double-curly-brace parameter substitution technically makes it possible to accept pipeline expressions or stages (a.k.a
"ASTs") as arguments. **Do not do this**.

```json
[
  {
    "$match": {
      "user_id": { "$eq": "{{ user_id }}" }
    }
  },
  "{{ custom_query_steps }}",
  {
    "$project": {
      "title": true,
      "content": true
    }
  }
]
```

The use of `custom_query_steps` gives complete control to users to insert any code into the query. Even if there is no
sensitive data in a collection, there are aggregation stages, like `$out`, that can write to the database, and therefore
can **inject data**. There are also stages, like `$lookup`, that can **read data from other collections**.

:::info JSON delimiter injection is not possible

Native query pipelines are parsed as BSON (by first parsing as JSON and interpreting the resulting document as [Extended
JSON][]) **before** parameters are substituted. So there is no need to worry about arguments that terminate a JSON node to
insert an extra node. For example an input of the form, `'"}}, { "$out": ... }'`, would not cause a security problem.

[Extended JSON]: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/mongodb-extended-json/

:::

## Escape inputs

Native queries are written as [aggregation pipelines][] which are JSON documents. Certain strings and object keys are
interpreted specially - they are evaluated as expressions instead of as plain values. In general any string that begins
with a dollar sign (`$`) evaluates as a lookup for a field in the "current" document, or references a variable; and any
object key that begins with a dollar sign represents an expression operator.

[aggregation pipelines]: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/operator/aggregation-pipeline/

Consider this pipeline which is intended to produce results that pass through an input argument so that it appears in
query output:

```json
[
  {
    "$project": {
      "value_from_query_input": "{{ user_input }}"
    }
  }
]
```

If a user is allowed to provide a string value for `user_input` then they could provide a string like
`"$some_sensitive_field"`. That evaluates to whatever is in a field with the same name in each database document, which
could cause information to leak that you might not want users to be able to access.

The best way to avoid this potential problem is to **escape** any user inputs that appear in your query. MongoDB
provides an operator that does this: `{ "$literal": <input value> }`. Unfortunately that operator is not allowed in
allowed in all contexts, so the specific procedure for escaping inputs depends on where those inputs appear.

### Escape inputs in `$match` stages

This section applies to `$match` stages that do **not** use the `$expr` syntax to switch to an expression context. If
you have a `$match` stage that uses the `$expr` operator see the [Escape inputs in other stages][] section below.

[Escape inputs in other stages]: #escape-inputs-in-other-stages

Although MongoDB aggregation pipelines support a fully-featured expression language, those expressions are not allowed
by default in `$match`. Instead of expressions `$match` takes a [query predicate][] which only permits a limited set of
query operators: `{ "$eq": <value> }`, `{ "$or": [<predicates>] }`, etc. This means that the input-escaping operator, `{
"$literal": <input value> }`, is not permitted because that is an expression operator, not a query operator. On the
other hand this also means that arbitrary expressions cannot be injected into this context via user input.

[query predicate]: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/glossary/#std-term-query-predicate

Where you can potentially see a problem is when using an implicit equality check instead of explicitly using the `$eq`
operator.

This is an **implicit** equality comparison:

```json
[
  {
    "$match": {
      "user_id": "{{ user_id }}"
    }
  }
]
```

This is an **explicit** equality comparison:

```json
[
  {
    "$match": {
      "user_id": { "$eq": "{{ user_id }}" }
    }
  }
]
```

**Always use explicit comparisons.** This has the effect of escaping inputs because arguments to query operators are
interpreted as literal values.

The above examples filter to documents with an exact match for an input user ID. If a user is allowed to supply an
object value for `user_value`, and you are using an implicit comparison what can happen is that the user can switch the
query to a different comparison operator. For example if the value of `user_id` is `{ "$ne": "1234" }` then instead of
getting only documents with `user_id` `1234` the query would return data from documents with all other user IDs, which
might leak sensitive information.

If you instead use an explicit comparison like `{ "$eq": <comparison value> }` then `comparison value` will be
interpreted as a literal value.

:::info The connector verifies input types, with a caveat

In general the MongoDB connector checks that user inputs match the types declared for a query. So if the parameter
`user_id` has the type `string` or `long` the connector won't accept an object as input. But if the parameter type is
`extendedJSON` than the connector will accept any type of argument.

:::

### Escape inputs in other stages

In most cases where user inputs appear you can escape them using the expression operator, `$literal`. For example the
proper escaping for the example from the intro to this section looks like this:

```json
[
  {
    "$project": {
      "value_from_query_input": { "$literal": "{{ user_input }}" }
    }
  }
]
```

The `$literal` operator can be used in any context where an expression is used. But it is not allowed in query
predicates.

Use `$literal` in `$match` stages if that stage uses the `$expr` operator. `$expr` switches from a query predicate
context to an expression context. Modifying the example from the previous section, a `$match` stage that uses `$expr`
should be escaped like this:

```json
[
  {
    "$match": {
      "$expr": {
        "$eq": ["$user_id", { "$literal": "{{ user_id}}" }]
      }
    }
  }
]
```
