docs/connectors/mongodb/native-operations/syntax.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_label: Syntax
description: Learn how to write Native Operations for MongoDB with the proper syntax in Hasura.
keywords:
  - hasura
  - native operations
  - troubleshooting
  - aggregate pipeline
  - custom mutations
  - custom queries
  - native queries
  - native mutations
  - syntax
  - gotchas
seoFrontMatterUpdated: false
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

# Native Operations MongoDB Syntax

## Native Queries

Pipeline to include in MongoDB queries. For details on how to write an aggregation pipeline see
https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/core/aggregation-pipeline/

The pipeline may include Extended JSON.

Keys and values in the pipeline may contain placeholders of the form `{{variableName}}` which will be substituted when
the native query is executed according to the given arguments.

Placeholders must be inside quotes so that the pipeline can be stored in JSON format. If the pipeline includes a string
whose only content is a placeholder, when the variable is substituted the string will be replaced by the type of the
variable. For example in this pipeline,

```json
[
  {
    "$documents": "{{ documents }}"
  }
]
```

If the type of the `documents` argument is an array then after variable substitution the pipeline will expand to:

```json
[
  {
    "$documents": [
      /* array of documents */
    ]
  }
]
```

### Examples

#### Collection Representation

```json
{
  "name": "ArtistWAlbumCount",
  "representation": "collection",
  "inputCollection": "Artist",
  "description": "Artists including their album count",
  "arguments": {},
  "resultDocumentType": "ArtistWAlbumCount",
  "objectTypes": {
    "ArtistWAlbumCount": {
      "fields": {
        "ArtistId": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "int"
          }
        },
        "Name": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "string"
          }
        },
        "AlbumCount": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "int"
          }
        },
        "_id": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "objectId"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "pipeline": [
    {
      "$lookup": {
        "from": "Album",
        "localField": "ArtistId",
        "foreignField": "ArtistId",
        "as": "Albums"
      }
    },
    { "$unwind": "$Albums" },
    {
      "$group": {
        "_id": "$ArtistId",
        "id": { "$first": "$_id" },
        "Name": { "$first": "$Name" },
        "AlbumCount": { "$count": {} }
      }
    },
    {
      "$project": {
        "_id": "$id",
        "ArtistId": "$_id",
        "Name": 1,
        "AlbumCount": 1
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Function Representation {#example-using-function-representation}

```json
{
  "name": "hello",
  "representation": "function",
  "description": "Basic test of native queries",
  "arguments": {
    "name": { "type": { "scalar": "string" } }
  },
  "resultDocumentType": "Hello",
  "objectTypes": {
    "Hello": {
      "fields": {
        "__value": { "type": { "scalar": "string" } }
      }
    }
  },
  "pipeline": [
    {
      "$documents": [
        {
          "__value": "{{ name }}"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

### Documentation

#### Name

| Property | Required? |
| -------- | --------- |
| `"name"` | Yes       |

Represents the name of the query that is exposed in your API.

#### Representation

| Property           | Required? |
| ------------------ | --------- |
| `"representation"` | Yes       |

:::tip Using a representation of a function in MongoDB Native Queries follows the same requirements of [functions in the
DDN spec][DDN: functions]. Specifically:

> A function is a collection which returns a single row and a single column, named \_\_value

<br />
Refer to the [function example](#example-using-function-representation) above. :::

There are 2 options:

1. `collection` is used here in terms of [DDN collections][DDN: collections].
2. `function` is used here in terms of [DDN functions][DDN: functions].

#### Input Collection

| Property            | Required? |
| ------------------- | --------- |
| `"inputCollection"` | No        |

Determines how the pipeline is run. If `"inputCollection"` is present then the pipeline runs with that collection as the
starting point. It is the same as doing `db.artist.aggregate` in `mongosh`. If no `"inputCollection"` is present then
the pipeline is run with `db` as the starting point. Which is the same as doing `db.aggregate` in `mongosh`.

#### Description

| Property        | Required? |
| --------------- | --------- |
| `"description"` | No        |

Used for documentation purposes in the API.

#### Arguments

| Property      | Required? |
| ------------- | --------- |
| `"arguments"` | No        |

Used if you want to accept arguments in your API for your pipeline. Please refer to [Types](#types). Arguments are
denoted in your [pipeline](#pipeline) code using `"{{ argument }}"`.

**Example:**

```json
  "arguments": {
    "abs": {
      "type": {
        "scalar": "int"
      }
    },
    "binarySize": {
      "type": {
        "scalar": "string"
      }
    }
```

#### Result Document Type

| Property               | Required? |
| ---------------------- | --------- |
| `"resultDocumentType"` | Yes       |

Represents the result type of your pipeline. This can refer to an existing object type from your schema or can be object
types you write yourself following the structure of [Types](#types)

A pipeline returns a stream of documents. `resultDocumentType` is the type of each individual document.

#### Object Types

| Property        | Required? |
| --------------- | --------- |
| `"objectTypes"` | No        |

If you need to return a type that is not already in your schema then you can write your own. Please refer to
[Types](#types) on how to write your own object types. The only difference is those types need to be wrapped in a type
name followed by fields.

Object types from all configuration files occupy a shared namespace so it is important that object type names be unique
within your configuration.

**Example:**

```json
  "objectTypes": {
    "ArtistWAlbumCount": {
      "fields": {
        "ArtistId": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "int"
          }
        },
        "Name": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "string"
          }
        },
        "AlbumCount": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "int"
          }
        },
        "_id": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "objectId"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
```

#### Pipeline

| Property     | Required? |
| ------------ | --------- |
| `"pipeline"` | Yes       |

The pipeline is almost identical to what you would write in javascript or mongosh using the [aggregate
pipeline][MongoDB: pipeline] API. The only difference is the double qouted keys to comply with JSON. For documentation
on aggregate pipelines please refer to [MongoDB][MongoDB: pipeline]. If you have arguments they need to be wrapped in
double quotes and double braces `"{{ argument }}"`. See example with arguments below.

**Example:** without arguments

```json
  "pipeline": [
    {
      "$lookup": {
        "from": "Album",
        "localField": "ArtistId",
        "foreignField": "ArtistId",
        "as": "Albums"
      }
    },
    {"$unwind": "$Albums"},
    {
      "$group": {
        "_id": "$ArtistId",
        "id": {"$first": "$_id"},
        "Name": {"$first": "$Name"},
        "AlbumCount": {"$count": {}}
      }
    },
    {
      "$project": {
        "_id": "$id",
        "ArtistId": "$_id",
        "Name": 1,
        "AlbumCount": 1
      }
    }
  ]
```

**Example:** with arguments

```json
"pipeline": [
  {
    "$documents": [
      {
        "__value": {
          "abs": {
            "$abs": "{{ abs }}"
          },
          "binarySize": {
            "$binarySize": "{{ binarySize }}"
          },
          "ceil": {
            "$ceil": "{{ ceil }}"
          },
          "floor": {
            "$floor": "{{ floor }}"
          },
          "divide": {
            "$divide": ["{{ dividend }}", "{{ divisor }}"]
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

### Types

Each field in a JSON object is defined with a key specifying the name of the field. Below the key, the "type" is
specified, which can be a scalar or structural type, followed by the type name. Here are descriptions for each type:

#### Scalar Types

- **double**: Represents a floating point number.
- **string**: Represents a sequence of characters.
- **bool**: Represents a boolean value, true or false.
- **int**: Represents an integer.
- **long**: Represents a longer form of integer.
- **decimal**: Represents a large decimal number.
- **date**: Represents a date, stored as a string in ISO format.
- **timestamp**: Represents a Unix timestamp.
- **objectId**: Represents an object identifier.

#### Structural Types

- **object**: Represents a BSON document or an embedded document. Users can define their own nested object types,
  specifying the structure of these objects as required by their applications.
- **arrayOf**: Represents an array of elements, with each element being a type specified after "arrayOf". For instance,
  "arrayOf": "string" means an array of strings.

Examples:

```json
{
  "age": {
    "type": {
      "scalar": "int"
    }
  },
  "name": {
    "type": {
      "scalar": "string"
    }
  },
  "preferences": {
    "type": {
      "object": "userPreferences"
    }
  },
  "tags": {
    "type": {
      "arrayOf": "string"
    }
  },
  "employment": {
    "type": {
      "object": "employmentDetails"
    }
  }
}
```

**In this example:**

- **age** is an integer.
- **name** is a string.
- **preferences** is a complex object defined elsewhere as userPreferences, indicating a structured type defined by the
  user.
- **tags** is an array consisting of strings.
- **employment** is a user-defined object type employmentDetails, which would be specified in more detail elsewhere in
  the documentation.

[DDN: collections]: https://hasura.github.io/ndc-spec/specification/schema/collections.html
[DDN: functions]: https://hasura.github.io/ndc-spec/specification/schema/functions.html
[MongoDB: pipeline]: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/core/aggregation-pipeline

## Native Mutations

Command to run via MongoDB's `runCommand` API. For details on how to write commands see
https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/method/db.runCommand/

The command is read as Extended JSON. It may be in canonical or relaxed format, or a mixture of both. See
https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/mongodb-extended-json/

Keys and values in the command may contain placeholders of the form `{{variableName}}` which will be substituted when
the native procedure is executed according to the given arguments.

Placeholders must be inside quotes so that the command can be stored in JSON format. If the command includes a string
whose only content is a placeholder, when the variable is substituted the string will be replaced by the type of the
variable. For example in this command,

```json
{
  "insert": "posts",
  "documents": "{{ documents }}"
}
```

If the type of the `documents` argument is an array then after variable substitution the command will expand to:

```json
{
  "insert": "posts",
  "documents": [
    /* array of documents */
  ]
}
```

### Examples

#### Insert

```json
  "name": "insertArtist",
  "description": "Example of a database insert using a native mutation",
  "resultType": {
    "object": "InsertArtist"
  },
  "arguments": {
    "artistId": {
      "type": {
        "scalar": "int"
      }
    },
    "name": {
      "type": {
        "scalar": "string"
      }
    }
  },
  "objectTypes": {
    "InsertArtist": {
      "fields": {
        "ok": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "int"
          }
        },
        "n": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "int"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "command": {
    "insert": "Artist",
    "documents": [
      {
        "ArtistId": "{{ artistId }}",
        "Name": "{{ name }}"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

#### Update

```json
{
  "name": "updateArtist",
  "description": "Example of a database update using a native mutation",
  "resultType": {
    "object": "UpdateArtist"
  },
  "arguments": {
    "artistId": {
      "type": {
        "scalar": "int"
      }
    },
    "name": {
      "type": {
        "scalar": "string"
      }
    }
  },
  "objectTypes": {
    "UpdateArtist": {
      "fields": {
        "ok": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "int"
          }
        },
        "n": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "int"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "command": {
    "update": "Artist",
    "updates": [
      {
        "q": {
          "ArtistId": "{{ artistId }}"
        },
        "u": {
          "ArtistId": "{{ artistId }}",
          "Name": "{{ name }}"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

#### Delete

```json
{
  "name": "deleteArtist",
  "description": "Example of a database delete using a native mutation",
  "resultType": {
    "object": "DeleteArtist"
  },
  "arguments": {
    "artistId": {
      "type": {
        "scalar": "int"
      }
    }
  },
  "objectTypes": {
    "DeleteArtist": {
      "fields": {
        "ok": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "int"
          }
        },
        "n": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "int"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "command": {
    "delete": "Artist",
    "deletes": [
      {
        "q": {
          "ArtistId": "{{ artistId }}"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Documentation

#### Name

`"name"`: **Required**

Represents the name of the query that is exposed in your API.

#### Description

`"description"`: **Optional**

Used for documentation purposes in the API.

#### Result Type

`"resultType"`: **Required**

Represents the result type of your command. This can refer to an existing object type from your schema or can be an
object type you write in the native query file following the structure of [Types](#types)

#### Arguments

`"arguments"`: **Optional**

Used if you want to accept arguments in your API for your command. Please refer to [Types](#types). Arguments are
denoted in your [command](#command) code using `"{{ argument }}"`.

**Example:**

```json
"arguments": {
  "age": {
    "type": {
      "scalar": "int"
    }
  },
  "name": {
    "type": {
      "scalar": "string"
    }
  }
}
```

#### Object Types

`"objectTypes"`: **Optional**

If you need to return a type that is not already in your schema then you can write your own. Please refer to
[Types](#types) on how to write your own object types. The only difference is those types need to be wrapped in a type
name followed by fields.

**Example:**

```json
"objectTypes": {
  "ArtistWAlbumCount": {
    "fields": {
      "ArtistId": {
        "type": {
          "scalar": "int"
        }
      },
      "Name": {
        "type": {
          "scalar": "string"
        }
      },
      "AlbumCount": {
        "type": {
          "scalar": "int"
        }
      },
      "_id": {
        "type": {
          "scalar": "objectId"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### Command

`"command"`: **Required**

The command is almost identical to what you would write in javascript or mongosh using the
[runCommand][MongoDB: runCommand] API. The only difference is the double qouted keys to comply with JSON. For
documentation on runCommand please refer to [MongoDB][MongoDB: runCommand]. If you have arguments they need to be
wrapped in double quotes and double braces `"{{ argument }}"`. See example below.

**Example:**

```json
"command": {
  "insert": "Artist",
  "documents": [
    {
      "ArtistId": "{{ artistId }}",
      "Name": "{{ name }}"
    }
  ]
}

```

### Types

Each field in a JSON object is defined with a key specifying the name of the field. Below the key, the "type" is
specified, which can be a scalar or structural type, followed by the type name. Here are descriptions for each type:

#### Scalar Types

- **double**: Represents a floating point number.
- **string**: Represents a sequence of characters.
- **bool**: Represents a boolean value, true or false.
- **int**: Represents an integer.
- **long**: Represents a longer form of integer.
- **decimal**: Represents a large decimal number.
- **date**: Represents a date, stored as a string in ISO format.
- **timestamp**: Represents a Unix timestamp.
- **objectId**: Represents an object identifier.

#### Structural Types

- **object**: Represents a BSON document or an embedded document. Users can define their own nested object types,
  specifying the structure of these objects as required by their applications.
- **arrayOf**: Represents an array of elements, with each element being a type specified after "arrayOf". For instance,
  "arrayOf": "string" means an array of strings.

Examples:

```json
{
  "age": {
    "type": {
      "scalar": "int"
    }
  },
  "name": {
    "type": {
      "scalar": "string"
    }
  },
  "preferences": {
    "type": {
      "object": "userPreferences"
    }
  },
  "tags": {
    "type": {
      "arrayOf": "string"
    }
  },
  "employment": {
    "type": {
      "object": "employmentDetails"
    }
  }
}
```

**In this example:**

- **age** is an integer.
- **name** is a string.
- **preferences** is a complex object defined elsewhere as userPreferences, indicating a structured type defined by the
  user.
- **tags** is an array consisting of strings.
- **employment** is a user-defined object type employmentDetails, which would be specified in more detail elsewhere in
  the documentation.

[DDN: collections]: https://hasura.github.io/ndc-spec/specification/schema/collections.html
[DDN: functions]: https://hasura.github.io/ndc-spec/specification/schema/functions.html
[MongoDB: runCommand]: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/method/db.runCommand

Commit message:

Document native query features in mongodb cli plugin (#778)
Co-authored-by: Sean Park-Ross <sean@hasura.io>
Co-authored-by: Sean Park-Ross <94021366+seanparkross@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/connectors/mongodb/native-operations/syntax.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_label: Syntax
description: Learn how to write Native Operations for MongoDB with the proper syntax in Hasura.
keywords:
  - hasura
  - native operations
  - troubleshooting
  - aggregate pipeline
  - custom mutations
  - custom queries
  - native queries
  - native mutations
  - syntax
  - gotchas
seoFrontMatterUpdated: false
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

# Native Operations MongoDB Syntax

## Native Queries

Pipeline to include in MongoDB queries. For details on how to write an aggregation pipeline see
https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/core/aggregation-pipeline/

The pipeline may include Extended JSON.

Keys and values in the pipeline may contain placeholders of the form `{{variableName}}` which will be substituted when
the native query is executed according to the given arguments.

Placeholders must be inside quotes so that the pipeline can be stored in JSON format. If the pipeline includes a string
whose only content is a placeholder, when the variable is substituted the string will be replaced by the type of the
variable. For example in this pipeline,

```json
[
  {
    "$documents": "{{ documents }}"
  }
]
```

If the type of the `documents` argument is an array then after variable substitution the pipeline will expand to:

```json
[
  {
    "$documents": [
      /* array of documents */
    ]
  }
]
```

### Examples

#### Collection Representation

```json
{
  "name": "ArtistWAlbumCount",
  "representation": "collection",
  "inputCollection": "Artist",
  "description": "Artists including their album count",
  "arguments": {},
  "resultDocumentType": "ArtistWAlbumCount",
  "objectTypes": {
    "ArtistWAlbumCount": {
      "fields": {
        "ArtistId": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "int"
          }
        },
        "Name": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "string"
          }
        },
        "AlbumCount": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "int"
          }
        },
        "_id": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "objectId"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "pipeline": [
    {
      "$lookup": {
        "from": "Album",
        "localField": "ArtistId",
        "foreignField": "ArtistId",
        "as": "Albums"
      }
    },
    { "$unwind": "$Albums" },
    {
      "$group": {
        "_id": "$ArtistId",
        "id": { "$first": "$_id" },
        "Name": { "$first": "$Name" },
        "AlbumCount": { "$count": {} }
      }
    },
    {
      "$project": {
        "_id": "$id",
        "ArtistId": "$_id",
        "Name": 1,
        "AlbumCount": 1
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Function Representation {#example-using-function-representation}

```json
{
  "name": "hello",
  "representation": "function",
  "description": "Basic test of native queries",
  "arguments": {
    "name": { "type": { "scalar": "string" } }
  },
  "resultDocumentType": "Hello",
  "objectTypes": {
    "Hello": {
      "fields": {
        "__value": { "type": { "scalar": "string" } }
      }
    }
  },
  "pipeline": [
    {
      "$documents": [
        {
          "__value": "{{ name }}"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

### Documentation

#### Name

| Property | Required? |
| -------- | --------- |
| `"name"` | Yes       |

Represents the name of the query that is exposed in your API.

#### Representation

| Property           | Required? |
| ------------------ | --------- |
| `"representation"` | Yes       |

:::tip Using a representation of a function in MongoDB Native Queries follows the same requirements of [functions in the
DDN spec][DDN: functions]. Specifically:

> A function is a collection which returns a single row and a single column, named \_\_value

<br />
Refer to the [function example](#example-using-function-representation) above. :::

There are 2 options:

1. `collection` is used here in terms of [DDN collections][DDN: collections].
2. `function` is used here in terms of [DDN functions][DDN: functions].

Native queries with the `function` representation have the restriction that the aggregation pipeline output must be
a singe document with a single property named `__value`. When the function is invoked the document will be unwrapped,
and the value in `__value` will be used as the return value of the function. This allows functions to produce values
that are not objects, as opposed to MongoDB aggregation pipelines which can only produce streams of objects.

#### Input Collection

| Property            | Required? |
| ------------------- | --------- |
| `"inputCollection"` | No        |

Determines how the pipeline is run. If `"inputCollection"` is present then the pipeline runs with that collection as the
starting point. It is the same as doing `db.artist.aggregate` in `mongosh`. If no `"inputCollection"` is present then
the pipeline is run with `db` as the starting point. Which is the same as doing `db.aggregate` in `mongosh`.

#### Description

| Property        | Required? |
| --------------- | --------- |
| `"description"` | No        |

Used for documentation purposes in the API.

#### Arguments

| Property      | Required? |
| ------------- | --------- |
| `"arguments"` | No        |

Used if you want to accept arguments in your API for your pipeline. Please refer to [Types](#types). Arguments are
denoted in your [pipeline](#pipeline) code using `"{{ argument }}"`.

**Example:**

```json
  "arguments": {
    "abs": {
      "type": {
        "scalar": "int"
      }
    },
    "binarySize": {
      "type": {
        "scalar": "string"
      }
    }
```

#### Result Document Type

| Property               | Required? |
| ---------------------- | --------- |
| `"resultDocumentType"` | Yes       |

Represents the result type of your pipeline. This can refer to an existing object type from your schema or can be object
types you write yourself following the structure of [Types](#types)

A pipeline returns a stream of documents. `resultDocumentType` is the type of each individual document.

#### Object Types

| Property        | Required? |
| --------------- | --------- |
| `"objectTypes"` | No        |

If you need to return a type that is not already in your schema then you can write your own. Please refer to
[Types](#types) on how to write your own object types. The only difference is those types need to be wrapped in a type
name followed by fields.

Object types from all configuration files occupy a shared namespace so it is important that object type names be unique
within your configuration.

**Example:**

```json
  "objectTypes": {
    "ArtistWAlbumCount": {
      "fields": {
        "ArtistId": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "int"
          }
        },
        "Name": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "string"
          }
        },
        "AlbumCount": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "int"
          }
        },
        "_id": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "objectId"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
```

#### Pipeline

| Property     | Required? |
| ------------ | --------- |
| `"pipeline"` | Yes       |

The pipeline is almost identical to what you would write in javascript or mongosh using the [aggregate
pipeline][MongoDB: pipeline] API. The only difference is the double qouted keys to comply with JSON. For documentation
on aggregate pipelines please refer to [MongoDB][MongoDB: pipeline]. If you have arguments they need to be wrapped in
double quotes and double braces `"{{ argument }}"`. See example with arguments below.

**Example:** without arguments

```json
  "pipeline": [
    {
      "$lookup": {
        "from": "Album",
        "localField": "ArtistId",
        "foreignField": "ArtistId",
        "as": "Albums"
      }
    },
    {"$unwind": "$Albums"},
    {
      "$group": {
        "_id": "$ArtistId",
        "id": {"$first": "$_id"},
        "Name": {"$first": "$Name"},
        "AlbumCount": {"$count": {}}
      }
    },
    {
      "$project": {
        "_id": "$id",
        "ArtistId": "$_id",
        "Name": 1,
        "AlbumCount": 1
      }
    }
  ]
```

**Example:** with arguments

```json
"pipeline": [
  {
    "$documents": [
      {
        "__value": {
          "abs": {
            "$abs": "{{ abs }}"
          },
          "binarySize": {
            "$binarySize": "{{ binarySize }}"
          },
          "ceil": {
            "$ceil": "{{ ceil }}"
          },
          "floor": {
            "$floor": "{{ floor }}"
          },
          "divide": {
            "$divide": ["{{ dividend }}", "{{ divisor }}"]
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

### Types

Each field in a JSON object is defined with a key specifying the name of the field. Below the key, the "type" is
specified, which can be a scalar or structural type, followed by the type name. Here are descriptions for each type:

#### Scalar Types

- **double**: Represents a floating point number.
- **string**: Represents a sequence of characters.
- **bool**: Represents a boolean value, true or false.
- **int**: Represents an integer.
- **long**: Represents a longer form of integer.
- **decimal**: Represents a large decimal number.
- **date**: Represents a date, stored as a string in ISO format.
- **timestamp**: Represents a Unix timestamp.
- **objectId**: Represents an object identifier.

#### Structural Types

- **object**: Represents a BSON document or an embedded document. Users can define their own nested object types,
  specifying the structure of these objects as required by their applications.
- **arrayOf**: Represents an array of elements, with each element being a type specified after "arrayOf". For instance,
  "arrayOf": "string" means an array of strings.

Examples:

```json
{
  "age": {
    "type": {
      "scalar": "int"
    }
  },
  "name": {
    "type": {
      "scalar": "string"
    }
  },
  "preferences": {
    "type": {
      "object": "userPreferences"
    }
  },
  "tags": {
    "type": {
      "arrayOf": "string"
    }
  },
  "employment": {
    "type": {
      "object": "employmentDetails"
    }
  }
}
```

**In this example:**

- **age** is an integer.
- **name** is a string.
- **preferences** is a complex object defined elsewhere as userPreferences, indicating a structured type defined by the
  user.
- **tags** is an array consisting of strings.
- **employment** is a user-defined object type employmentDetails, which would be specified in more detail elsewhere in
  the documentation.

[DDN: collections]: https://hasura.github.io/ndc-spec/specification/schema/collections.html
[DDN: functions]: https://hasura.github.io/ndc-spec/specification/schema/functions.html
[MongoDB: pipeline]: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/core/aggregation-pipeline

## Native Mutations

Command to run via MongoDB's `runCommand` API. For details on how to write commands see
https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/method/db.runCommand/

The command is read as Extended JSON. It may be in canonical or relaxed format, or a mixture of both. See
https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/mongodb-extended-json/

Keys and values in the command may contain placeholders of the form `{{variableName}}` which will be substituted when
the native procedure is executed according to the given arguments.

Placeholders must be inside quotes so that the command can be stored in JSON format. If the command includes a string
whose only content is a placeholder, when the variable is substituted the string will be replaced by the type of the
variable. For example in this command,

```json
{
  "insert": "posts",
  "documents": "{{ documents }}"
}
```

If the type of the `documents` argument is an array then after variable substitution the command will expand to:

```json
{
  "insert": "posts",
  "documents": [
    /* array of documents */
  ]
}
```

### Examples

#### Insert

```json
  "name": "insertArtist",
  "description": "Example of a database insert using a native mutation",
  "resultType": {
    "object": "InsertArtist"
  },
  "arguments": {
    "artistId": {
      "type": {
        "scalar": "int"
      }
    },
    "name": {
      "type": {
        "scalar": "string"
      }
    }
  },
  "objectTypes": {
    "InsertArtist": {
      "fields": {
        "ok": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "int"
          }
        },
        "n": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "int"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "command": {
    "insert": "Artist",
    "documents": [
      {
        "ArtistId": "{{ artistId }}",
        "Name": "{{ name }}"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

#### Update

```json
{
  "name": "updateArtist",
  "description": "Example of a database update using a native mutation",
  "resultType": {
    "object": "UpdateArtist"
  },
  "arguments": {
    "artistId": {
      "type": {
        "scalar": "int"
      }
    },
    "name": {
      "type": {
        "scalar": "string"
      }
    }
  },
  "objectTypes": {
    "UpdateArtist": {
      "fields": {
        "ok": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "int"
          }
        },
        "n": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "int"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "command": {
    "update": "Artist",
    "updates": [
      {
        "q": {
          "ArtistId": "{{ artistId }}"
        },
        "u": {
          "ArtistId": "{{ artistId }}",
          "Name": "{{ name }}"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

#### Delete

```json
{
  "name": "deleteArtist",
  "description": "Example of a database delete using a native mutation",
  "resultType": {
    "object": "DeleteArtist"
  },
  "arguments": {
    "artistId": {
      "type": {
        "scalar": "int"
      }
    }
  },
  "objectTypes": {
    "DeleteArtist": {
      "fields": {
        "ok": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "int"
          }
        },
        "n": {
          "type": {
            "scalar": "int"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "command": {
    "delete": "Artist",
    "deletes": [
      {
        "q": {
          "ArtistId": "{{ artistId }}"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Documentation

#### Name

`"name"`: **Required**

Represents the name of the query that is exposed in your API.

#### Description

`"description"`: **Optional**

Used for documentation purposes in the API.

#### Result Type

`"resultType"`: **Required**

Represents the result type of your command. This can refer to an existing object type from your schema or can be an
object type you write in the native query file following the structure of [Types](#types)

#### Arguments

`"arguments"`: **Optional**

Used if you want to accept arguments in your API for your command. Please refer to [Types](#types). Arguments are
denoted in your [command](#command) code using `"{{ argument }}"`.

**Example:**

```json
"arguments": {
  "age": {
    "type": {
      "scalar": "int"
    }
  },
  "name": {
    "type": {
      "scalar": "string"
    }
  }
}
```

#### Object Types

`"objectTypes"`: **Optional**

If you need to return a type that is not already in your schema then you can write your own. Please refer to
[Types](#types) on how to write your own object types. The only difference is those types need to be wrapped in a type
name followed by fields.

**Example:**

```json
"objectTypes": {
  "ArtistWAlbumCount": {
    "fields": {
      "ArtistId": {
        "type": {
          "scalar": "int"
        }
      },
      "Name": {
        "type": {
          "scalar": "string"
        }
      },
      "AlbumCount": {
        "type": {
          "scalar": "int"
        }
      },
      "_id": {
        "type": {
          "scalar": "objectId"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### Command

`"command"`: **Required**

The command is almost identical to what you would write in javascript or mongosh using the
[runCommand][MongoDB: runCommand] API. The only difference is the double qouted keys to comply with JSON. For
documentation on runCommand please refer to [MongoDB][MongoDB: runCommand]. If you have arguments they need to be
wrapped in double quotes and double braces `"{{ argument }}"`. See example below.

**Example:**

```json
"command": {
  "insert": "Artist",
  "documents": [
    {
      "ArtistId": "{{ artistId }}",
      "Name": "{{ name }}"
    }
  ]
}

```

### Types

Each field in a JSON object is defined with a key specifying the name of the field. Below the key, the "type" is
specified, which can be a scalar or structural type, followed by the type name. Here are descriptions for each type:

#### Scalar Types

- **double**: Represents a floating point number.
- **string**: Represents a sequence of characters.
- **bool**: Represents a boolean value, true or false.
- **int**: Represents an integer.
- **long**: Represents a longer form of integer.
- **decimal**: Represents a large decimal number.
- **date**: Represents a date, stored as a string in ISO format.
- **timestamp**: Represents a Unix timestamp.
- **objectId**: Represents an object identifier.

#### Structural Types

- **object**: Represents a BSON document or an embedded document. Users can define their own nested object types,
  specifying the structure of these objects as required by their applications.
- **arrayOf**: Represents an array of elements, with each element being a type specified after "arrayOf". For instance,
  "arrayOf": "string" means an array of strings.

Examples:

```json
{
  "age": {
    "type": {
      "scalar": "int"
    }
  },
  "name": {
    "type": {
      "scalar": "string"
    }
  },
  "preferences": {
    "type": {
      "object": "userPreferences"
    }
  },
  "tags": {
    "type": {
      "arrayOf": "string"
    }
  },
  "employment": {
    "type": {
      "object": "employmentDetails"
    }
  }
}
```

**In this example:**

- **age** is an integer.
- **name** is a string.
- **preferences** is a complex object defined elsewhere as userPreferences, indicating a structured type defined by the
  user.
- **tags** is an array consisting of strings.
- **employment** is a user-defined object type employmentDetails, which would be specified in more detail elsewhere in
  the documentation.

[DDN: collections]: https://hasura.github.io/ndc-spec/specification/schema/collections.html
[DDN: functions]: https://hasura.github.io/ndc-spec/specification/schema/functions.html
[MongoDB: runCommand]: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/method/db.runCommand
