---
sidebar_label: DDN Topology & Architecture
description: "Learn about the topology and architecture of Hasura DDN"
keywords:
  - hasura ddn
  - architecture
  - topology
---

import Thumbnail from "@site/src/components/Thumbnail";

# DDN Topology & Architecture

## Topology

Compared to Hasura v2, a fundamental architecture improvement introduced Hasura DDN where the buildtime and runtime are
separated into distinct components. The [Control Plane](#control-plane) builds the project's metadata and makes it
available for the Hasura DDN engine running on the [Data Plane](#data-plane).

<Thumbnail src="/img/deployment/control_plane.png" alt="control plane" />

### Control Plane {#control-plane}

Developers interact with the Hasura DDN Control Plane to create [supergraph builds](/project-configuration/overview.mdx)
Each supergraph build produces a unique GraphQL API, hosted by the Data Plane. As a developer, you use the Hasura
console on the Control Plane to visualize the supergraph and interact with the GraphQL API.

The Control Plane also provides monitoring and observability features. The console lets you add collaborators so that
you can invite other developers to contribute to the supergraph and also to share the GraphQL API with consumers.

The Control Plane enables preview deployments, in the form of builds, by accepting your project metadata and making it
available to the Data Plane in a format optimized for the Hasura DDN Engine runtime.

Each build you create will results in a unique, immutable GraphQL API that can be used to execute operations
independently, without affecting any other builds.

The Control Plane processes observability data sent by the Data Plane and makes it available for consumption on the
console. This includes traces for every GraphQL operation executed and overall metrics on API usage.

### Data Plane {#data-plane}

The Hasura DDN Engine and the data connectors run on the Data Plane. The Hasura DDN Data Plane runs an enhanced version
of the DDN engine which is capable of serving multiple GraphQL APIs at the same time. It is a serverless-like runtime
where the configuration for executing a GraphQL request is loaded on-demand and is discarded after processing the
request. This makes the runtime extremely efficient and highly scalable.

Certain connectors also makes use of similar strategies to efficiently handle connection pools, only creating them
on-demand.

The Data Plane can be deployed across multiple regions, enabling API requests to be routed to the nearest client
location for optimal latency through advanced load-balancing with Anycast IP addresses.

This feature is readily available on GCP, AWS, and Azure, and can also be deployed on self-hosted Hasura DDN, provided
the infrastructure supports the necessary network capabilities.

## Architecture

Hasura DDN is a fully managed SaaS product where your API is running on the cloud, and where performance, availability
and security is already taken care of for you. Your API will be running on Hasura's optimized serverless production
infrastructure.

For organizations with advanced security and compliance needs, Hasura DDN can be deployed within isolated compute and
network infrastructure and hosted with a specific cloud provider and regions you choose. Private deployment of Hasura
DDN enables secure connectivity to your data sources, whether they are within your Cloud VPCs or on-prem infrastructure.
You can also configure the API to be exposed over internal IP alone. Advanced firewall rules and API protections are
also available.

Hasura Private DDN is available as a dedicated offering that is fully hosted and managed by Hasura. It can be deployed
to your own cloud provider account in a Bring Your Own Cloud (BYOC) model, where it is still completely managed by
Hasura.

### Hasura DDN

When you create a project on Hasura DDN, your GraphQL API is running on global serverless edge infrastructure hosted by
Hasura. You configure your instance to talk to your databases, APIs, or other connectors that are hosted on your
infrastructure and Hasura communicates with them over the public internet.

<Thumbnail src="/img/deployment/ddn_architecture.png" alt="DDN Architecture" />

With serverless-edge deployment, Hasura and your connectors operate within Hasura's infrastructure. We manage automatic
scaling, provisioning, operations, and maintenance.

This deployment option is production-ready, with the API available **instantly**. There is no base cost: it is free if
you are on the Free plan, or you only pay for the [models](/reference/metadata-reference/models.mdx) if you're on the
Base or Advanced plans. For more details, visit our [pricing page](https://hasura.io/pricing/ddn).

### Hasura Private DDN

Hasura Private DDN provides all the benefits of Hasura DDN with the added advantage of private data connectivity and
isolated infrastructure. We highly recommend Private DDN for any organization using Hasura DDN to connect to private
data, ensuring that sensitive information remains secure and is protected from vulnerabilities associated with public
networks.

<Thumbnail src="/img/deployment/private_ddn.png" alt="Hasura Private DDN Architecture" />

With Private DDN, the Data Plane is running on Dedicated Infrastructure which provides dedicated network and compute
infrastructure for your deployment, offering superior security by isolating traffic from public networks and other
customers. The highest level of isolation provided by cloud providers is used to make sure that the workloads are
dedicated to the customer.

Private Data Source Connectivity enables direct, secure, and private connections to data sources without relying on
public networks, minimizing latency and enhancing data protection. With Private DDN, VPC peering, VPN, Private Link or
any other cloud vendor specific technology is available.

Single Sign-On (SAML) with Private DDN enables effortless and secure access by integrating with identity providers like
Okta or Active Directory. Custom Firewall Rules allows organizations to define custom rules, controlling network traffic
flow based on specific security policies. Private DDN also gives customers Private API Endpoints (For Internal network
use) that are restricted to internal networks, ensuring external traffic cannot access your applications or data.

### Multi-region

Hasura DDN is deployed to many regions around the globe. This deployment model provides lowest latency possible to your
API clients. The API endpoint that Hasura DDN provides is backed by an Anycast IP address, where a single IP is
allocated for serving the incoming request and the request is routed to the nearest Hasura DDN region.

<Thumbnail src="/img/deployment/multi_region_postgres.png" alt="DDN multi-region routing" />

Combined with multi-region databases, Hasura DDN gives you the best performance for your APIs, without the hassle of
setting up any of this infrastructure yourself. Read more about how this works on
[our blog](https://hasura.io/blog/global-reach-local-performance-introducing-hasuras-multi-region-database-routing).
