docs/reference/connectors/snowflake/configuration.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: Configuration
description:
  "Reference documentation for the setup process for the Hasura Snowflake connector, including connection URI details,
  and native queries."
keywords:
  - snowflake
  - configuration
---

# Configuration Reference

## Introduction

The configuration is a metadata object that lists all the database entities — such as tables — that the data connector
has to know about in order to serve queries. It never changes during the lifetime of the data connector service
instance. When your database schema changes you will have to update the configuration accordingly, see
[updating with introspection](#updating-with-introspection).

## Structure

The configuration object is a JSON object with the following fields:

```json
{
  "jdbcUrl": "",
  "jdbcProperties": {},
  "schemas": [],
  "tables": [],
  "functions": [],
  "nativeQueries": {}
}
```

### Property: JDBC URL

The JDBC connection URL to connect to the Snowflake instance. This is a required field.

The value can either be a literal string, or a reference to an environment variable:

```json
{
  "jdbcUrl": "jdbc:snowflake://<account-identifier.<region>.snowflakecomputing.com?user=YOUR_USERNAME&&password=YOUR_PASSWORD&db=YOUR_DATABASE&warehouse=YOUR_WAREHOUSE&schema=YOUR_SCHEMA&role=YOUR_ROLE",
  "jdbcUrl": { "variable": "SNOWFLAKE_JDBC_URL" }
}
```

### Property: JDBC Properties

This is a JSON object containing key-value pairs of additional properties to be passed to the JDBC driver.

### Property: Schemas

This is an optional array of schema names to include in the introspection process. If not provided, all schemas will be
included.

Example:

```json
{
  "schemas": ["PUBLIC", "OTHER_SCHEMA"]
}
```

### Property: Tables

This is an array of table definitions, generated automatically during introspection.

Example:

```json
{
  "tableName": "DOCS.PUBLIC.USERS",
  "tableType": "TABLE",
  "description": null,
  "columns": [
    {
      "name": "AGE",
      "description": null,
      "type": "NUMBER",
      "numeric_precision": 38,
      "numeric_scale": 0,
      "nullable": false,
      "auto_increment": false,
      "is_primarykey": null
    },
    {
      "name": "NAME",
      "description": null,
      "type": "TEXT",
      "numeric_precision": null,
      "numeric_scale": null,
      "nullable": false,
      "auto_increment": false,
      "is_primarykey": null
    },
    {
      "name": "ID",
      "description": null,
      "type": "NUMBER",
      "numeric_precision": 38,
      "numeric_scale": 0,
      "nullable": false,
      "auto_increment": true,
      "is_primarykey": null
    }
  ],
  "pks": [],
  "fks": null
}
```

### Property: Functions

This is an array of function definitions.

Example:

```json
{
  "function_catalog": "PUBLIC",
  "function_schema": "PUBLIC",
  "function_name": "add",
  "argument_signature": "(N NUMBER, M NUMBER)",
  "data_type": "TABLE (N NUMBER, M NUMBER)",
  "comment": "Adds two numbers"
}
```

### Property: Native Queries

This is a JSON object containing key-value pairs of Native Queries to be used in the data connector.

Two types of Native Queries are supported: **Inline** and **Parameterized**.

Example:

```json
{
  "native_query_inline": {
    "sql": {
      "parts": [
        {
          "type": "text",
          "value": "SELECT 1 AS result FROM DUAL"
        }
      ]
    },
    "columns": {
      "result": {
        "type": "named",
        "name": "INT"
      }
    },
    "arguments": {},
    "description": ""
  },
  "ArtistById_parameterized": {
    "sql": {
      "parts": [
        {
          "type": "text",
          "value": "SELECT * FROM CHINOOK.ARTIST WHERE ARTISTID = "
        },
        {
          "type": "parameter",
          "value": "ARTISTID"
        }
      ]
    },
    "columns": {
      "ARTISTID": {
        "type": "named",
        "name": "INT"
      },
      "NAME": {
        "type": "nullable",
        "underlying_type": {
          "type": "named",
          "name": "STRING"
        }
      }
    },
    "arguments": {
      "ARTISTID": {
        "description": null,
        "type": {
          "type": "named",
          "name": "INT"
        }
      }
    },
    "description": null,
    "isProcedure": false
  }
}
```

## Updating with introspection

Whenever the schema of your database changes you will need to update your data connector configuration accordingly to
reflect those changes.

Running `update` in a configuration directory will do the following:

- Connect to the database with the specified `jdbcUrl`, and then overwrite all data in the `tables` field

- Fill in default values for any fields absent from the configuration

Commit message:

Docs: Add note about schema precedence

docs/reference/connectors/snowflake/configuration.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: Configuration
description:
  "Reference documentation for the setup process for the Hasura Snowflake connector, including connection URI details,
  and native queries."
keywords:
  - snowflake
  - configuration
---

# Configuration Reference

## Introduction

The configuration is a metadata object that lists all the database entities — such as tables — that the data connector
has to know about in order to serve queries. It never changes during the lifetime of the data connector service
instance. When your database schema changes you will have to update the configuration accordingly, see
[updating with introspection](#updating-with-introspection).

## Structure

The configuration object is a JSON object with the following fields:

```json
{
  "jdbcUrl": "",
  "jdbcProperties": {},
  "schemas": [],
  "tables": [],
  "functions": [],
  "nativeQueries": {}
}
```

### Property: JDBC URL

The JDBC connection URL to connect to the Snowflake instance. This is a required field.

The value can either be a literal string, or a reference to an environment variable:

```json
{
  "jdbcUrl": "jdbc:snowflake://<account-identifier.<region>.snowflakecomputing.com?user=YOUR_USERNAME&&password=YOUR_PASSWORD&db=YOUR_DATABASE&warehouse=YOUR_WAREHOUSE&schema=YOUR_SCHEMA&role=YOUR_ROLE",
  "jdbcUrl": { "variable": "SNOWFLAKE_JDBC_URL" }
}
```

### Property: JDBC Properties

This is a JSON object containing key-value pairs of additional properties to be passed to the JDBC driver.

### Property: Schemas

This is an optional array of schema names to include in the introspection process. If not provided, all schemas will be
included. **Any schema passed in the JDBC URL will take precedence.**

Example:

```json
{
  "schemas": ["PUBLIC", "OTHER_SCHEMA"]
}
```

### Property: Tables

This is an array of table definitions, generated automatically during introspection.

Example:

```json
{
  "tableName": "DOCS.PUBLIC.USERS",
  "tableType": "TABLE",
  "description": null,
  "columns": [
    {
      "name": "AGE",
      "description": null,
      "type": "NUMBER",
      "numeric_precision": 38,
      "numeric_scale": 0,
      "nullable": false,
      "auto_increment": false,
      "is_primarykey": null
    },
    {
      "name": "NAME",
      "description": null,
      "type": "TEXT",
      "numeric_precision": null,
      "numeric_scale": null,
      "nullable": false,
      "auto_increment": false,
      "is_primarykey": null
    },
    {
      "name": "ID",
      "description": null,
      "type": "NUMBER",
      "numeric_precision": 38,
      "numeric_scale": 0,
      "nullable": false,
      "auto_increment": true,
      "is_primarykey": null
    }
  ],
  "pks": [],
  "fks": null
}
```

### Property: Functions

This is an array of function definitions.

Example:

```json
{
  "function_catalog": "PUBLIC",
  "function_schema": "PUBLIC",
  "function_name": "add",
  "argument_signature": "(N NUMBER, M NUMBER)",
  "data_type": "TABLE (N NUMBER, M NUMBER)",
  "comment": "Adds two numbers"
}
```

### Property: Native Queries

This is a JSON object containing key-value pairs of Native Queries to be used in the data connector.

Two types of Native Queries are supported: **Inline** and **Parameterized**.

Example:

```json
{
  "native_query_inline": {
    "sql": {
      "parts": [
        {
          "type": "text",
          "value": "SELECT 1 AS result FROM DUAL"
        }
      ]
    },
    "columns": {
      "result": {
        "type": "named",
        "name": "INT"
      }
    },
    "arguments": {},
    "description": ""
  },
  "ArtistById_parameterized": {
    "sql": {
      "parts": [
        {
          "type": "text",
          "value": "SELECT * FROM CHINOOK.ARTIST WHERE ARTISTID = "
        },
        {
          "type": "parameter",
          "value": "ARTISTID"
        }
      ]
    },
    "columns": {
      "ARTISTID": {
        "type": "named",
        "name": "INT"
      },
      "NAME": {
        "type": "nullable",
        "underlying_type": {
          "type": "named",
          "name": "STRING"
        }
      }
    },
    "arguments": {
      "ARTISTID": {
        "description": null,
        "type": {
          "type": "named",
          "name": "INT"
        }
      }
    },
    "description": null,
    "isProcedure": false
  }
}
```

## Updating with introspection

Whenever the schema of your database changes you will need to update your data connector configuration accordingly to
reflect those changes.

Running `update` in a configuration directory will do the following:

- Connect to the database with the specified `jdbcUrl`, and then overwrite all data in the `tables` field

- Fill in default values for any fields absent from the configuration
